Luke Walton, who was released earlier this month from his job as head coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, has been accused of sexual assault by a former host on Spectrums SportsNet, reports Monday said.
The Los Angeles Times reported that Kelli Tennant alleges that the coach assaulted her inside the Casa Del Mar in Santa Monica while he was a coach with the Golden State Warriors.
He was a coach there until 2016.
The paper said it reached out to Walton, his new team the Sacramento Kings and Spectrum SportsNet and did not get an immediate response.
LEBRON SHOCKED BY MAGIC DEPARTURE The Times reported that the lawsuit alleges that Walton pinned Tennant to a bed in his hotel room and began forcing kisses on her neck, face and chest.
TMZ reported that the suit alleges that she screamed for him to stop but he held her down and groped her.
She claimed that when she left the room, he said, Good to see you.
Walton, a former Lakers forward, went 98-148 after getting his first permanent head coaching job with the 16-time NBA champions.
The former Golden State top assistant never led the Lakers to the playoffs, not even after the arrival of LeBron James last summer.
GET THE FOX NEWS APP Waltons departure came three days after the Lakers finished with a loss Tuesday to the Trail Blazers and the abrupt resignation of team president Magic Johnson.
The Associated Press contributed to this report
Former Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Donovan McNabb isnt getting much love from the players of his former team after criticizing their current shot-caller, Carson Wentz.
McNabb suggested during an appearance on CBS Sports Radio over the weekend that Wentz should be replaced if he cant lead the team past the second round of the playoffs within the next two seasons.
EAGLES' JALEN MILLS, WIZARDS' DEVIN ROBINSON ARRESTED AFTER BRAWL OUTSIDE NIGHTCLUB, POLICE SAY Eagles offensive tackle Lane Johnson came to the defense of Wentz, who missed six games last season and had his 2017 season cut short by a torn ACL, by tagging McNabb in a tweet with a series of snake emojis.
And you wonder why nobody respects you when you come back, Johnson wrote of McNabb.
Adding to the drama, Freddie Mitchell, a former first-round pick who played with Donovan for four seasons, took a dig at his former teammate.
That guy screwed my whole NFL career up.
Love that people are seeing the real now, tweeted Mitchell.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP McNabb on Monday clarified his comments in a series of tweets, saying that theres no beef, riff or ill-will toward Wentz or the Eagles though he continued to stand by his remarks.
Maybe people just didnt like it because its coming from me or I answered a question from one of the talents on the radio the way you didnt agree with, McNabb wrote.
If thats how you feel Im sorry you feel that way.
Its the nature of the game.
Former Dallas Cowboys executive Gil Brandt shared a story on social media Friday detailing how the front office put together traps to catch scouts leaking information to the press.
Brandt, who's in the Pro Football Hall of Fame, tweeted he and his personnel showed their draft board to a scout and it showed them taking linebacker Mike Junkin who was coming out of Duke at the time.
NFL DRAFT PROSPECT NICK BOSA CLEANSES TWITTER ACCOUNT OF POLITICAL MESSAGES OVER CHANCES HE'D END UP WITH 49ERS Sometimes we'd lay traps for scouts we didn't trust.
In 1987 we showed our board to a scout with us taking Mike Junkin, a LB we didn't like, he wrote.
Two days later, Cowboys beat writer Jim Dent wrote story saying we were taking Junkin.
He added: Hook, line, stinker.
The Cowboys ended up taking defensive tackle Danny Noonan with the No.
12 pick.
Junkin was selected by the Cleveland Browns with the No.
5 pick and was out of the league after the 1989 season.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Brandts story came in response to an NFL Network report that Oakland Raiders head coach Jon Gruden and general manager Mike Mayock sent their scouts home days before the draft.
The Raiders are slated to pick fourth.
Tony Mandarich is widely considered one of the biggest draft busts in NFL history.
The Green Bay Packers selected the offensive lineman with the No.
2 pick in the 1989 NFL Draft out of Michigan State where he'd been named an All-American.
However, Mandarich only played three seasons with the Packers before a forgetful stint with the Indianapolis Colts from 1996 to 1998.
NFL DRAFT PROSPECT NICK BOSA CLEANSES TWITTER ACCOUNT OF POLITICAL MESSAGES OVER CHANCES HE'D END UP WITH 49ERS Mandarich explained in an interview with ESPN that he had troubles with steroids and painkiller abuse during his time in the league.
I was taking 40, 50, 60 painkillers a day, and drinking, he said.
He said he used steroids while at Michigan State, which he attributed to the success he had in college.
He said he stopped once he got to the NFL because of the leagues drug testing.
Mandarich said he lost 10 percent of his strength after quitting steroids.
He was out of the league for five years between his time with the Packers and Colts to get healthy.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Now, Mandarich said hes working as a photographer.
Indianapolis Colts linebacker Darius Leonard tackled a different problem over the weekend.
Leonard helped a woman change a tire while she was broken down on the side of the road.
Martha Isbell posted the video of Leonard changing the tire on social media.
MATTHEW STAFFORDS WIFE RECOVERING FROM BRAIN SURGERY, LEARNING HER NEW NORMAL Darius Leonard continues to be an outstanding player on and off the field, she tweeted.
So thankful to God that he stopped and helped me.
Much love!
Its unclear where the woman was broken down.
Isbell lists Lake View, S.C., as her location on Twitter.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Leonard won the Defensive Rookie of the Year award last season.
He played in 15 games and led the league in combined tackles with 163 and solo tackles with 111.
He also recorded four forced fumbles.
A DISH Network subcontractor was arrested earlier this month after he allegedly hugged a Colorado woman after doing work for her at her home, police said.
Karen Loest said David Novinski put her in a bear hug after he had done repair work at her Elbert County home.
Loest, 70, told FOX31 Denver on Thursday the repair started out as routine -- but things went awry when it was time to leave.
HIKERS WARNED TO WATCH OUT FOR UNDETONATED BOMBS IN COLORADO MOUNTAINS FROM AVALANCHE MITIGATION I walked over to see him out, and he proceeded to turn and put me in a bear hug, Loest told the station, adding that she was terrified.
At that point, I didnt know whether I was going to be raped thrown down on the floor, she said.
He has me pinned my arms and chest and it hurt."
Novinski waited for a moment before apologizing and left, she told FOX31.
We take the safety and security of our community very seriously.
We are investigating the allegations regarding this individual who is an employee of an independent third party and not of DISH, DISH Network spokesman John Hall told the station.
This individual is no longer assigned to any DISH jobs.
We remain in contact with the independent third party contractor and our customer.
Novinski was arrested April 7 and booked into the Elbert County Jail.
He faces charges of first-degree criminal trespass and negligent bodily injury to an at-risk person, the station reported, citing court documents.
Mike McCullough, Novinskis lawyer claimed that his client usually gives hugs and that Loest first called his employer and not the police.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Now hes unemployed, and, in my view, because somebody didnt take the necessary steps to complete an investigation on this, McCullough told FOX31.
The Philadelphia Flyers on Sunday removed a statue of late singer Kate Smith that stood outside their arena for more than three decades, the move coming two days after the team covered the monument in response to complaints about two tunes the "God Bless America" singer performed in the 1930s.
The Flyers had covered the statue and suspended playing her famous rendition of the patriotic song Friday.
The Flyers decision followed a similar one made recently by the New York Yankees, who for 18 years had played the recording during the seventh inning stretch.
Smith's statue had stood near the Philadelphia sports complex since 1987.
KATE SMITH'S RELATIVES 'HEARTBROKEN' AFTER YANKEES, FLYERS DROP HER 'GOD BLESS AMERICA' RECORDING: REPORT The NHL principle 'Hockey is for Everyone' is at the heart of everything the Flyers stand for, team president Paul Holmgren said in a statement.
As a result, we cannot stand idle while material from another era gets in the way of who we are today.
Smith, who died in 1986 at age 79, was long considered an American icon, in large part because of her association with "God Bless America," the 1918 Irving Berlin song she recorded in 1939.
She received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1982.
Recently, however, the Yankees reportedly became aware Smith sang a popular 1931 song, Thats Why Darkies Were Born.
The tune, originally written for a Broadway revue and later referenced in a Marx Brothers flick, featured lyrics such as: Someone had to pick the cotton, Someone had to pick the corn, Someone had to slave and be able to sing, Thats why darkies were born.
Ray Henderson and Lew Brown wrote the song.
Smith did not contribute words or music.
The song was considered a satire of racism in its time, with civil rights activist Paul Robeson also having recorded a version.
Detractors also note Smith recorded a song called "Pickaninny Heaven" -- with "pickaninny" being a racial slur for a black child -- and point to Smith's likeness appearing in an ad for baking powder that featured a "mammy" character.
The Flyers had played Smiths version of God Bless America before must-win games since 1969, the Philadelphia Inquirer reported, and its record in those games was a stellar 101-31-5.
She performed her rendition in person before the team captured its Stanley Cup in 1974.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The Yankees pulled "God Bless America" earlier this season after being informed about the questionable Broadway song, the New York Post reported.
Fox News Louis Casiano and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
For his team's first three games in the first round of the NBA playoffs, Golden State Warriors sharpshooter Klay Thompson had been merely mediocre -- but after an unscheduled dip in the ocean, Thompson made a splash on the court.
Thompson scored 32 points, including nailing six three-pointers in the Warriors' 113-105 win Sunday over the Los Angeles Clippers in the opening round of the Western Conference playoffs.
He hadn't scored more than 20 points in any of the team's previous eight games before the pivotal postseason performance, which gave the Warriors a 3-1 series lead.
He explained to reporters after the game how an impromptu plunge helped his breakthrough performance.
WARRIORS BEAT LA 113-105, TAKE 3-1 SERIES LEAD TO BAY AREA I told Jonas [Jerebko] -- we went to the beach and played some volleyball -- I'm like, 'Yo, I'm just going to jump in the ocean, and I just know that will reset my mind.
And it worked," Thompson told ESPN.
"I don't know if I'm going to jump up north because it's freezing, but it's something I'll definitely contemplate if I don't shoot the ball that well the rest of the year.
But hopefully that doesn't happen."
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Thompson started the game by hitting his first seven shots, helping the Warriors take charge
Former college football coach Tommy Tuberville why he thinks he's the perfect candidate to tackle Sen. Doug Jones, D-Ala., for his U.S. Senate seat.
Tuberville, 64, told Fox & Friends hosts Steve Doocy and Jedediah Bila he is going from the gridiron to the campaign trail because he wants to give back to the community and the state of Alabama.
JOE BELLINO, NAVY'S FIRST HEISMAN COLLEGE FOOTBALL AWARD WINNER, DIES AT 81 I learned leadership, communication skills, bringing people together and thats what you do in a job like this.
You use all those skills and try to make everybody better.
I want to build a winning strategy for Alabama and for this country, he said.
Tuberville has spent 21 seasons as a college football head coach.
Hes won 159 games with Mississippi, Auburn, Texas Tech and Cincinnati.
He won the SEC Coach of the Year twice once in 1997 and the other in 2004.
Tuberville will be trying to recapture the seat for the Republican Party which was left vacant by Jeff Sessions when he joined the Trump administration as attorney general.
Jones won the seat in a 2017 special election over ex-state Supreme Court Chief Justice Roy Moore.
The former coach also has made his support for President Trump clear.
He supported Trump during the election.
I believe in him.
He has a great work ethic.
The guys a winner.
The things that hes done we need people to stand behind him in the Senate in Congress to help get his agenda through.
I want to help this state in Alabama, Tuberville said.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Tuberville will have to defeat Bradly Byrne, a congressman, to represent the GOP on the ticket.
The primary is set for March 3, 2020.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Russell Westbrook went cold just when Dame Time hit in the third quarter again.
Now time's almost up for the Oklahoma City Thunder.
Damian Lillard scored 15 of his 24 points in the third quarter, and the Portland Trail Blazers held Westbrook without a basket in the second half in beating the Thunder 111-98 on Sunday night to take a 3-1 lead in their series.
Lillard had another big third quarter after scoring 25 points in the period in a Game 3 loss Friday.
In this game, the All-Star point guard was 5 of 7 in the third to help Portland take control for good.
"I didn't feel the need to get overly aggressive in the first half, once I saw how the game was going," he said.
"But then in the third, I felt like that was the time when we needed to hit the gas."
Lillard made his first basket with 1:14 left in the first half after missing his first six shots, but he had seven assists before the break.
"We've kind of come to expect it," Portland coach Terry Stotts said.
"He manages the game.
He senses the moment when we need him to do different things.
He's an ultimate competitor.
He is going to give it his all."
C.J.
McCollum scored 27 points, Al-Farouq Aminu had 19 points and nine rebounds, and Maurice Harkless added 15 points and 10 rebounds for the Trail Blazers.
Portland can close out the series Tuesday at home.
Paul George had 32 points and 10 rebounds for Oklahoma City.
Dennis Schroder added 17 points.
Westbrook scored 14 points on 5-for-21 shooting.
He missed his final 10 shots and was 0 for 7 with one point in the second half.
"Sometimes you have nights like that," he said.
"That happens sometimes.
But it just wasn't good enough for us to get the win."
George missed most of the second quarter with three fouls, but the Thunder hung tough and led for much of the period.
Lillard hit a 3-pointer in the final minute to give Portland the lead, then Aminu hit a 3 with 3.9 seconds left as the Trail Blazers took a 50-46 edge into the break.
Lillard hit deep back-to-back 3s 27 seconds apart to give Portland a 66-54 lead.
The Trail Blazers stretched the lead to 19 in the third before the Thunder closed the gap.
George hit a 3-pointer from the corner in the closing seconds to cut Portland's lead to 79-68.
A 3-pointer by Schroder pulled Oklahoma City within 97-87 with 3:35 remaining, but the Trail Blazers maintained control.
Now, the Thunder will try to fight off elimination.
"Honestly, regardless of what the series is, it's always one game at a time," George said.
"You play one game.
You leave everything in one game and go to the next one.
It makes no difference when you're down 3-1 you've got to take it one game at a time, regardless."
TIP-INS Trail Blazers: Lillard was just 2 of 8 in the first half and scored seven points.
... Made 22 of 23 free throws.
... Outrebounded the Thunder 41-38.
Thunder: Thunder coach Billy Donovan was called for a technical in the first quarter for arguing a no-call against Steven Adams.
...
Shot 37.5 percent from the field.
... Westbrook had nine rebounds and seven assists.
HE SAID IT Lillard, on Portland's effort to avoid the trash talking and distractions from Game 3: "We're not going to go out there and get in any shouting matches, back and forth and all that stuff.
We're going to focus on the stuff that we need to focus on that's going to give us a chance to win the game.
I was proud of how our team stuck to that."
STAT LINES Westbrook has made just 29 of 80 shots in the series (36.3 percent).
HOT SHOOTING McCollum made 5 of 9 3-pointers on Sunday.
He has made 16 of 31 3s in the series.
Kawhi Leonard missed the NBA playoffs last season, in multiple ways.
He wasn't playing the games.
He wasn't feeling the games, either.
That's not a problem this season for the 2014 NBA Finals MVP.
Healthy and happy, Leonard has the Toronto Raptors one win away from the second round.
He scored 34 points and the Raptors beat the Orlando Magic 107-85 on Sunday night to take a 3-1 lead in their Eastern Conference first-round series.
"You just want to be out there on the floor, with your teammates and just feel that team spirit and chemistry, just trying to focus on one goal," said Leonard, who was out for almost all of last season, his last with San Antonio before an offseason trade to Toronto.
"That's something I was missing, just being out, sitting out.
That's why it's a blessing this year just to be able to play and be on the floor, regardless of what the outcome is."
Pascal Siakam and Norman Powell each scored 16 for the Raptors, who can advance with a home win in Game 5 on Tuesday.
Toronto has now won three consecutive postseason games, only the third time that's happened in franchise history.
Aaron Gordon scored 25 for the Magic, making his first seven shots of the second half.
Evan Fournier scored 19 and Nikola Vucevic added 11 for the Magic, who committed 17 turnovers that became 21 Toronto points.
"We're better than what we've shown," Gordon said.
And now the Magic's season is squarely on the brink.
There have been 11 teams to successfully rally from a 3-1 series deficit in a best-of-seven NBA series, and of those, only three pulled it off by winning a Game 7 on the road.
So it's not impossible just highly improbable.
"Our guys have fought hard all year," Magic coach Steve Clifford said.
He liked the fight on Sunday, too.
Leonard just always had the better counterpunch.
He made 12 of 20 shots, added six rebounds and scored his 34 points in 35 minutes.
He was in total control on both ends, and the Raptors shot 53 percent a franchise record for a road playoff game.
Serge Ibaka scored 13 and Kyle Lowry had nine assists for the Raptors.
"Road wins are the best, especially in the playoffs," Leonard said.
"And obviously, we all know the job isn't done yet."
A flurry at the end of the first half, led by Leonard and Siakam, put Toronto up by double digits and the margin stayed there the rest of the way.
Vucevic missed from close range the Magic argued that Leonard was guilty of goaltending, the referees disagreed with about 2:45 left in the half, a disputed play that could have gotten Orlando within seven.
Instead, the Magic went into the break down by 16.
Toronto closed the half on an 11-1 run, with Leonard scoring the first five and Siakam hitting a pair of 3s for the final six.
The last of those 3s by Siakam came with 4.5 seconds left, and the Raptors headed into intermission with a 58-42 cushion.
"These series, and the games in the series, are a lot about imposing your will on a team," Raptors coach Nick Nurse said.
Whenever Orlando flashed some hope in the third quarter, Leonard immediately snuffed it out.
A dunk by Gordon cut the lead to 13?
Leonard made a 3.
A 3-pointer by Fournier to get within 12?
Leonard made a pullup.
A stepback by Gordon to get within 12 again?
Leonard split defenders, absorbed contact and laid the ball in to start a three-point play."
"He's a Finals MVP," Gordon said.
"He's doing what he's supposed to do.
That's what they pay the man for, to come down here and be Kawhi Leonard."
And before long, there was no more doubt about the outcome.
Magic fans started leaving midway through the fourth quarter.
The team's dancers gathered for a group photo at midcourt not long after the final buzzer, as if they knew the last home game of the season had just ended.
TIP-INS Raptors: Toronto is 28-2 this season (and 16-0 on the road) when leading by at least 10 points at the half.
... Leonard's teams are 60-31 when he plays in the postseason.
Among players in this year's playoffs with at least 60 postseason wins, only Draymond Green, Shaun Livingston, Klay Thompson and Stephen Curry all Golden State Warriors have a better winning percentage.
Magic: Orlando, which fell behind 11-0 in Game 2 and 10-0 in Game 3, started Game 4 on a 7-0 run.
The Magic started 6 for 6 from the field, and then missed 26 of their next 38 shots going 1 for 13 from 3-point range during that drought.
... Terrence Ross beat the buzzer for the second straight game; it was a midcourt shot to close the first half of Game 2, and this time it was a 35-footer to end the third quarter.
VIRAL MOMENT Nurse was trending on social media for much of the game, after a fairly nondescript 3-second call on Fred VanVleet with 2:12 left in the opening quarter elicited quite the reaction from him.
Nurse stood almost perfectly still on the sideline after the call, his mouth agape for about 15 seconds in some sort of disbelief.
"Is that a good thing?"
Nurse asked afterward, when told he was a social-media phenomenon.
UNTIMELY Orlando has dropped three straight, its longest slide since losing four in a row from Jan. 23-29.
The Magic have also been held under 100 points in three straight games for the first time since Jan. 6-9.
UP NEXT Game 5 is Tuesday in Toronto.
A little scoreboard watching inspired Klay Thompson and Golden State.
Seeing Houston up 3-0 on Utah combined with having dropped a game at home, the Warriors got back to business.
Kevin Durant scored 33 points and Thompson added 32 in a 113-105 victory over the Los Angeles Clippers on Sunday that gave the Warriors a commanding 3-1 lead in their first-round playoff series.
"We came in with that mindset to put our foot on the throttle and not let go," Thompson said.
"We let go in Game 2 and we won't do that the rest of the playoffs.
I really believe that."
After a quiet 12 points in Game 3, Thompson broke out for 27 points by halftime, when Durant had 19.
"In the first quarter, we really didn't need to do anything special.
Klay was just amazing.
K.D.
was consistent the whole game," Stephen Curry said.
"For us, obviously with the threats we have out there, it is just a matter of trying to be as patient as possible."
Curry's patience was tried as he missed his first six shots and was in foul trouble for the second straight game before finishing with 12 points.
Andrew Bogut fouled out with 5:50 remaining in the game with eight points and 10 rebounds.
Game 5 is Wednesday in Oakland, when the two-time defending champions could close out the series.
The Warriors were 17 of 19 from the free throw line.
They controlled the boards, 49-33, led by Curry and Bogut with 10 rebounds apiece.
"The rebounding really hurt us again," Clippers coach Doc Rivers said.
"Right now they are crushing us on the glass."
Coming off a 27-point loss in Game 3, the Clippers played tougher defensively and hung in after trailing by 11 in the second quarter.
They outscored Golden State 30-25 in the third when they rallied to take a five-point lead.
But Curry scored seven of the Warriors' final 10 points to send them into the fourth ahead 87-84.
"This team was just looking for a crack," Durant said of the Clippers.
"They don't stop.
Even when you go home after the game you're going to be thinking of them because they're tough."
The Clippers narrowed it to 87-86 early in the fourth, but Thompson sank his sixth 3-pointer and the Clippers never got close the rest of the way.
Rookie Shai Gilgeous-Alexander led the Clippers with a career-high 25 points.
Danilo Gallinari added 16 points but was just 5 of 20 from the floor.
Patrick Beverley had 12 points and 10 rebounds.
"He played with no fear," Durant said of Gilgeous-Alexander, "and that's what kept them in the game most of the game."
Super subs Lou Williams and Montrezl Harrell were held to 12 and 10 points, respectively.
They were limited to a combined eight points in the second half.
"We hadn't been able to get everyone on the same page and to have good games on the same night," Williams said.
"My success has been predicated on everyone playing well and we just haven't been able to get that going."
The Clippers opened the second on a 13-3 run to tie it 35-all, but Thompson made two free throws that put Los Angeles down 10 later in the quarter.
The Clippers closed within four but Durant completed a four-point play to stretch the lead to eight points at halftime.
TIP-INS Warriors: Their streak of having at least 30 assists in three straight playoff games, which tied a franchise record, ended.
They had 27 assists.
Clippers: C JaMychal Green started in place of rookie Ivica Zubac.
Green scored a career playoff-high 15 points in Game 3, but had just six points.
...
Retiring Hall of Fame announcer Ralph Lawler turned 81.
...
The anthem singer was 7-year-old Malea Emma Andrawidjaja.
CURRY'S FOULS Curry had five fouls in Game 3 and piled up four in Game 4.
He had written the words "no" on one shoe and "reach" on the other.
"He didn't reach as much tonight so that was good," coach Steve Kerr said.
"Steph sometimes loses focus.
He's such a fascinating player.
The same thing that makes him not hesitate to shoot a fadeaway 30-footer maybe is the same thing that gets him in foul trouble.
He'll be fine."
UP NEXT Game 5 is Wednesday at Oracle Arena.
Gordon Hayward and Marcus Morris took care of some housecleaning Sunday.
They dusted off their 3-point shooting touch in time to help the Boston Celtics complete a clean sweep.
Hayward scored 20 points, Morris added 18 and the duo combined for five 3s over the final 5 minutes to give Boston a 110-106 victory and its first 4-0 series victory in eight years.
"I knew there was going to be a spark off the bench.
(On Sunday) and that person was Gordon Hayward," All-Star guard Kyrie Irving said.
"This is his city.
I'm glad he had a chance to put on a performance like that in a closeout game."
Just how rare is a sweep for a franchise with a league-record 17 titles?
Since 1986-87, the Celtics had done it just once in the first round against the New York Knicks.
And between the Celtics' title-clinching sweep over the Minneapolis Lakers in 1958-59 and their perfect run through the 1985-86 Eastern Conference finals against Milwaukee, the Celtics achieved it just twice in 1979 against Houston and in 1980 against Chicago.
So when coach Brad Stevens was asked Saturday about how he'd react if his players earned some time off, Stevens said he wasn't sure.
Now, last year's Eastern Conference runner-ups can start a new to-do list with a potential matchup looming against the top-seeded Bucks.
"It's going to take everything we have," Hayward said.
"That's why it's good we finished this series.
We can rest up, prepare, and have some extra time."
Clearly, the Celtics played better than a No.
4 seed in this series.
They won the first three games on the strength of a suffocating second-half defense that twice limited the Pacers 12-point quarters and once to eight.
This time, they finished the job by grinding it out behind a group of polished veterans.
The game swung when Indiana guard Cory Joseph was called for a Flagrant 1 foul with 6:45 left.
Jayson Tatum made both free throws to give Boston an 83-82 lead.
After Al Horford made 1 of 2 free throws on Boston's next possession and then Morris knocked down a 3 and Hayward completed a three-point play to give the Celtics a 90-83 advantage with 4:15 to go.
Hayward and Morris were just getting started.
Over the next three-plus minutes, they made three more 3s to give Boston a 102-90 lead with 1:04 to go.
Even a final flurry of 3s couldn't bail out Indiana.
Bojan Bogdanovic scored 22 points and Tyreke Evans scored a playoff career-high 21 as the Pacers got swept for the second time in three years the only two times it has happened in franchise history.
"They got hot," Pacers forward Thaddeus Young said.
"They started making shots and we stopped making shots.
That's one of the biggest thing that's haunted us through this whole series."
TIP-INS Celtics: Closed out the series with their seventh straight win against Indiana this season.
... Irving had 14 points and seven assists.
Tatum had 18 points and eight rebounds and Morris also had eight rebounds.
... Al Horford had 14 points, 12 rebounds and five assists.
... Jaylen Brown added 13 points and Terry Rozier added 11 off the bench.
... Boston was 11 of 28 on 3s, 5 of 7 in the fourth.
Pacers: Darren Collison had 19 points, six rebounds and five assists.
Young added nine points and nine rebounds.
... Domantas Sabonis scored 14 points and grabbed eight rebounds while Myles Turner had 13 points and seven rebounds....
The Pacers shot 40.9 percent from the field in the game and missed more than a handful of shots at the rim.
...
THE BIG O Pacers fans welcomed back All-Star guard Victor Oladipo with a standing ovation Sunday, his first public appearance at Bankers Life Fieldhouse since he suffered a season-ending injury to his right knee.
Oladipo sat safely behind Indiana's bench, stood and waved to the crowd when he was introduced during the first stoppage in play.
While Oladipo did not talk to reporters, he did get a hug and spoke briefly with Irving after the final buzzer sounded.
THEY SAID IT Celtics: "You have to earn it every time you play the Pacers," Stevens said.
"They just play so hard, and they play so together.
If you take your foot off the gas at any point in time, you're in trouble."
Pacers: "A lot of people downplayed Boston as a team," coach Nate McMillan said.
"But we knew they would get it right come playoff time.
UP NEXT Celtics: Will wait for their second-round opponent.
Pacers: Contemplate how to improve next season.
After winning Game 5 at home to avoid elimination, Tomas Hertl vowed the San Jose Sharks would return to SAP Center for a seventh and decisive game in their opening round series with the Vegas Golden Knights.
One day later, he clarified it wasn't necessarily a guarantee, but rather a vote of confidence his team would force a Game 7.
Either way, he came through Sunday to make it happen.
Hertl scored a short-handed goal 11:17 into the second overtime to lift San Jose to a 2-1 win over the Golden Knights, forcing a deciding game in their first-round playoff series.
"At first moment when I get it, I was already a little bit tired, I was thinking maybe just dump it in and change, but I saw a little bit of space, so I just take a couple of steps and try shoot it," Hertl said.
"If you don't try you never know, so I tried it and it somehow get through, and for sure huge goal."
Just 31 seconds after Barclay Goodrow was called for slashing Brayden McNabb, it was Marc-Edouard poking the puck from in front of Jones with a stretch pass down the center of the ice, where a weary Hertl was there to gather the delivery, skate past Vegas' Shea Theodore and beat Marc-Andre Fleury with a wrist shot to seal the win and force Game 7 on Tuesday at San Jose.
"The only reason it went in because Shea Theodore slashed a stick and you tell your defensemen to play the guy's stick," Vegas coach Gerard Gallant said.
"So, it's do or die in the next game for both teams."
Hertl became the first player in NHL history to score a short-handed winner in a postseason game that required multiple overtimes.
Only eight other players in league history have scored a short-handed goal in the first overtime of a postseason game.
Logan Couture also scored to get the Sharks on the board just before the end of the first period, when he quickly gathered the puck, maneuvered around Golden Knights defender Nate Schmidt and fired past Fleury to give San Jose a 1-0 with 6.5 seconds left.
"Obviously, it's a tough one," said Jonathan Marchessault, who scored Vegas' lone goal.
"I felt like we were the better team, but sometimes these games can feel a little tricky.
We definitely kept buzzing and kept going.
... Obviously disappointed, I think tonight we should have won, but who cares.
Got to go Game 7 and get it done over there."
That won't be easy against a suddenly hot Jones, who had a playoff career-high 58 saves in Game 6 and has helped San Jose win two straight to even the series after being forced to the brink of elimination.
Jones has stopped 88 of 91 shots in the last two games.
"It was a good game obviously, we stuck with it the whole night," Jones said.
"I give our guys a lot of credit, they had some huge penalty kills in overtime and the third.
Everybody chipped in with stuff today."
Jones may have saved his best performance for Game 6, coming up with big saves to keep the Sharks in the game with huge saves while under rapid fire.
With Vegas carrying momentum over from Marchessault's goal that tied the score with 8:40 left in the second period, and a penalty kill that carried into the third, Jones' biggest save came against Reilly Smith, whose point-blank one-timer was stymied.
Moments later Jones snuffed out Mark Stone's slap shot from the circle.
Both goalies came up with monster saves during the first extra period, first with Fleury - who had 27 saves - stopping Kevin Labanc just after the puck drop, and later when Jones stopped Max Pacioretty's one-timer with 9:57 left.
"To their credit, they want to close this out tonight at home and they pushed hard and Jonesy made some big saves," San Jose coach Peter DeBoer said.
"I thought we defended well, even though we were on our heels a little bit.
I thought it was a gutsy effort on the road in a tough situation by our group and we're still alive."
Asked if he had an assurance for Tuesday, Hertl laughed and simply guaranteed the Sharks would show up and play their best game.
"Game 7 is the most fun game you can play in the NHL," Hertl said.
NOTES: The game marked Vegas' second only Game 6 in its young history, as its only other appearance in a Game 6 was a 3-0 victory in San Jose during the Western Conference semifinals of the 2018 Stanley Cup Playoffs.
...
The teams received a rare two-day break between Games 5 and 6 because the Jordan Brand Classic high school all-star basketball game was already booked for Saturday at T-Mobile Arena.
... Fleury has won the last two Game 7s he has started: the Stanley Cup Final against Detroit in 2009, and at Washington in 2017.
The 15-year allowed one goal in those two games.
UP NEXT Game 7 is Tuesday night at San Jose.
Facing elimination, Boston didn't panic when it fell behind halfway through the first period.
The Bruins kept their focus, quickly tied it and took the lead, and then held off the Toronto Maple Leafs to force a Game 7 in their first-round playoff series.
Brad Marchand had two goals and an assist as the Bruins beat the Maple Leafs 4-2 on Sunday.
"We just knew there was a lot of game left," Marchand said.
"We've come from behind a lot this year.
We weren't fazed.
We came together, played very hard after that.
We played a really good game."
Torey Krug and Jake DeBrusk also scored, and David Pastrnak had two assists to help Boston avoid elimination.
Tuukka Rask stopped 22 shots.
"(We) gave ourselves another opportunity for another game," Marchand said.
"We got to try to replicate it.
They're going to come hard.
They've played really well so far in our building this series."
Morgan Rielly and Auston Matthews scored for Toronto in a series neither team has managed back-to-back victories and each has won twice on the road.
Frederik Andersen finished with 37 saves.
"It is what is now," Maple Leafs forward John Tavares said.
"We've still got a good chance to win this series.
That's what our focus is on now.
It's over with now.
Obviously we'd love to get it done today.
It's not the case."
The Bruins will host the deciding game on Tuesday night.
The Maple Leafs, who lost to the Bruins in seven games in both 2013 and last spring, have not advanced to the second round of the playoffs since 2004.
"You try to forget the past, whether it's this series or last year's series," DeBrusk said, "and understand they're going to come out with everything they've got and so are we."
The winner of this series will take on the Columbus Blue Jackets, who got the Eastern Conference's last wild card and then swept a Tampa Bay Lightning team that tied an NHL record with 62 victories in the regular season.
Toronto, which took a 3-2 lead in the series thanks to a patient, stifling defensive performance Friday at Boston, is Canada's last hope of ending the country's 26-year Stanley Cup drought.
The Calgary Flames and Winnipeg Jets were eliminated in their first-round series.
Toronto opened the scoring at 9:42 of the opening period on Rielly's first of the playoffs.
Having hit the post on an early power play, the defenseman took a pass from William Nylander and fired a one-timer short-side along the ice after the Bruins failed to clear the defensive zone.
Boston tied it on a man advantage 1:41 later when Marchand snapped his third goal of the series on a shot off a scrambled draw that hit Leafs defenseman Ron Hainsey and beat Andersen between the legs.
"When the season's on the line you want to play hard, you want to leave it all out there," Marchand said.
"Sometimes it bounces your way, sometimes it doesn't.
Luckily today it bounced our way."
The Bruins' power play, which was held in check in Game 5, but was still 5 for 14 coming into this game, struck again with 2:58 left in the period.
Krug got a rebound of Pastrnak's shot and fired a shot upstairs on Andersen for his first of the postseason.
Andersen did well to keep it a one-goal deficit late in the first by making two hockey-card caliber stops on both Patrice Bergeron and Grzelcyk.
Andersen was solid, but could do nothing on Boston's slick goal that made it 3-1.
DeBrusk left the puck for David Krejci on a 2-on-2 rush before getting inside position on Maple Leafs forward Andreas Johnsson and making a diving stab at the return feed at 7:57.
The goal was the first of the playoffs for DeBrusk, who had six goals last spring with five coming against Toronto, including two in Game 7.
"It's obviously nice to get the result we wanted and it was nice to contribute," DeBrusk said.
The Maple Leafs pulled within one early in the third as Matthews scored his fifth goal in the last four games as he took a pass from Jake Gardiner and rifled a shot far side on Rask at 4:15.
Matthews was held without a point in the first two games of the series, and had just two points in Toronto's seven-game loss to Boston last spring.
Kasperi Kapanen cut in off the rush seven minutes into the third, but Rask closed the door on the speedy winger to preserve Boston's lead.
Andersen bailed out Rielly after a brutal turnover with under four minutes to go, robbing Pastrnak of a chance, but Marchand scored into an empty net with 1:54 left to seal the win and even the series.
"We've got a one-game series against these guys," Toronto coach Mike Babcock said, looking ahead to Tuesday.
"We've got a good group that enjoys being together and plans on having a good run.
...
In order to do that, we've got to go into Boston and win a game."
NOTES: The 3 p.m. puck drop was something different for the Maple Leafs, who had just one afternoon game in the regular season.
The Bruins played 12 day games.
UP NEXT Game 7 is Tuesday night at Boston.
The wife of Detroit Lions quarterback Matthew Stafford announced on Instagram Sunday that she's recovering from her brain surgery and is at home learning her new normal.
Kelly Stafford wrote in a lengthy post earlier this month that she began to notice something was off when she started to feel dizzy when showing her kids how to front roll or twirl in ballet and then had a vertigo spell in January.
She said her initial bloodwork showed nothing wrong, but the Lions doctor recommended she get an MRI for her brain.
NEBRASKA MAN'S RAPID HEARTRATE STABILIZES AFTER HITTING POTHOLE I had a tumor sitting on some of my cranial nerves.
The medical term they used was an acoustic neuroma or vestibular schwannoma.. All I heard was brain tumor & that they had to do surgery to take it out.. so that is what we are going to do & we believe we found the best doctor to do it.
She had surgery on Wednesday and the procedure took twice as long as expected due to an abnormal vein.
The doctor who performed the surgery was an expert on the condition.
He had seen it [the vein] before and written a paper on it, she posted.
Thats truly Gods work.
The prayers for my family, Im beyond thankful for.
A six hour surgery went to 12 hours and although they were anxious and scared, your prayers got them through.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
Now I am home and learning my new norm.
Itll take some time, but I really just wanted to say thank you.
Thank you for all your support, thoughts and prayers.
It means more than yall will ever know.
GET THE FOX NEWS APP Dr. Jack Rock, a neurosurgeon at Henry Ford Health System, said at a news conference that the procedure is relatively safe.
The surgeon enters behind the ear.
Some of the complications can be temporary or long-term facial paralysis.
Fox News' Edmund DeMarche and Ryan Gaydos contributed to this report
Noah Syndergaard wasnt able to hit a home run on his own, but the Cardinals helped him get there.
Center fielder Dexter Fowler leaped on the warning track and got his glove on Syndergaards deep fly ball, but it popped out and landed over the wall with two outs in the fourth inning Sunday at Busch Stadium.
Syndergaards fifth career home run cut the Cardinals lead to 5-2.
GET THE FOX NEWS APP The pitcher did not get much help from his own defense, as Amed Rosarios fielding error keyed a two-run Cardinals rally in the second inning, but St. Louis returned the favor.
New York Yankees star Aaron Judge was sidelined Saturday with a pretty significant strain of his left oblique, team manager Aaron Boone said, and it will be several weeks before the team can even estimate when the slugger will return.
Boone said Sunday that Judge will need to rest and allow the injury to heal.
Judge was hurt Saturday while swinging at a pitch against Kansas City.
KATE SMITH'S 'GOD BLESS AMERICA' OUT AT YANKEES STADIUM OVER RACIST SONGS He became the Yankees 13th player on the disabled list and the 14th overall this season, joining Giancarlo Stanton, Aaron Hicks, Gary Snchez, Didi Gregorius, Miguel Andjar and Greg Bird.
Those six and Judge accounted for 175 of the teams record 267 homers last year and 515 of the 821 RBIs.
Judge sustained a season-ending right oblique strain while fouling off a pitch against the Los Angeles Dodgers on Sept. 13, 2016.
Infielder Thairo Estrada, the only remaining healthy position player on the 40-man roster, was recalled from Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre.
Estrada, recovered from a February 2018 gunshot wound sustained in Venezuela, would make his major league debut.
JACKIE ROBINSON DOCUMENTARY TELLS 'BREATHTAKING' STORY OF THE BASEBALL AND CIVIL RIGHTS ICON Snchez, out since April 10 with a strained left calf, is scheduled to play a rehabilitation game Monday with Class A Charleston and could be activated before Wednesdays game at the Los Angeles Angels.
The Associated Press contributed to this report
Philadelphia 76ers star Joel Embiid called Brooklyn Nets player Jared Dudley 'a nobody' after both teams got into a heated scuffle during Saturday's Game 4 of the NBA playoffs, which the Sixers won 112-108.
The two had been going back and forth all week, with Dudley calling Embiid's teammate, Ben Simmons, an "average" player earlier in the series.
When asked about criticism towards him, Simmons responded by saying, "It's coming from Jared Dudley, come on."
ROCKETS BEAT JAZZ 104-101 FOR 3-0 SERIES LEAD It escalated on Saturday when Embiid fouled Nets center, Jarrett Allen, fairly hard, causing Dudley to come to Allen's defense by shoving Embiid and getting in his face.
Jimmy Butler, Embiid's teammate, reacted by shoving Dudley and a scrum ensued.
Dudley and Butler were ejected for taking part in the brawl, while Embiid received a flagrant 1.
If he didn't put his hands up, he could have been ejected as well.
When asked about Dudley after the game, Embiid didn't hold back.
First of all, hes a nobody.
And, you know, when opponents try to do stuff like that, thats just to get us out of the game," he told TNT after the game.
"Im too valuable for my team.
Thats why I didnt react.
I did not do anything, and I didnt think that was a flagrant foul because I played the ball too.
But in that type of situation, I just gotta stay composed and be mature and let it go because my teammates, they need me more than they need him so, you know, I just gotta be mature.
During their press conference after the game, both Embiid and Butler continued to talk in good spirits about the incident, seeing as they won the game.
CELTICS BEAT PACERS 104-96 TO TAKE 3-0 SERIES LEAD "First of all, we knew it was coming," Embiid said of Dudley getting in his face.
"Yeah, we definitely thought it was coming.
I don't be paying attention to him too much.
I just don't think you should run up on anybody like that."
Butler explained.
The Sixers stormed back after the ejections, outscoring the Nets 51-41 and taking a 3-1 lead in the series.
They have a chance to close out the Nets on April 23 in Philadelphia.
A new lawsuit alleges that new Sacramento Kings coach Luke Walton sexually assaulted a woman sometime before being named coach of the Los Angeles Lakers in April 2016.
The civil lawsuit, first reported by TMZ and confirmed by ESPN, alleges that Kelli Tennant, a former host on Spectrum SportsNet LA -- the Lakers' regional sports network -- received an unwanted physical advance by Walton at a Santa Monica, California, hotel room.
The suit alleges that Tennant, who had a working relationship with Walton stemming from his time as a guest analyst on Spectrum, met with him at the Casa Del Mar Hotel to drop off a copy of her book, for which he provided the foreword, when he was in town on a road trip as an assistant coach with the Golden State Warriors.
According to the legal documents obtained by ESPN, Walton allegedly invited Tennant to his room so they wouldn't be seen together by any Warriors players.
He then allegedly pinned Tennant to the hotel bed and forcibly kissed and groped her.
The suit also alleges that in May 2017, sometime after the hotel incident occurred, Walton "forced an aggressive hug" and made a lewd remark about Tennant's outfit at a charity event the two attended.
The Lakers said they were never told of the allegations when Walton was their coach and had no additional comment because he now works for another team.
"At no time before or during his employment here was this allegation reported to the Lakers," the statement read.
"If it had been, we would have immediately commenced an investigation and notified the NBA.
Since Luke Walton is now under contract to another team, we will have no further comment."
The Kings released a statement on Monday night regarding the alleged incident.
"We are aware of the report and are gathering additional information," the statement said.
"We have no further comment at this time."
The Warriors said they were also "aware of the alleged incident" and gathering additional information.
The team had no other comment.
The NBA has opened an investigation of its own, sources told ESPN.
The Los Angeles Times reports that Tennant's lawyer declined to say whether she reported the alleged assault to police.
Walton "mutually parted ways" with the Lakers earlier this month, according to the team, and was hired by the Kings the next day.
Team sources told ESPN's Ramona Shelburne that the alleged incident occurred well before Walton joined the Lakers.
"No one ever reported it to the team," a source said.
"And that is not why the team parted ways with him."
DETROIT -- The last time the Milwaukee Bucks danced out of the first round of the playoffs, Giannis Antetokounmpo had yet to pick up a basketball.
It was 2001, Ray Allen was lighting up the court against the Philadelphia 76ers.
Antetokounmpo was 7 years old and half a world away.
Fast forward 18 years.
The Bucks, led by playoff career-high 41 points from Antetokounmpo, defeated the Detroit Pistons 127-104.
With the win, the Bucks completed a first-round sweep of Detroit.
Milwaukee won the first game of the series 121-86, the second 120-99 and the third 119-103.
Before Monday night, the Bucks had lost eight straight first-round playoff series.
"It's a good night for Milwaukee," coach Mike Budenholzer said.
"It's a good night for the Bucks."
The celebrations were not overwhelming.
A crowd of Bucks fans -- some holding up a Greek flag -- lollygagged, screaming "MVP" in Antetokounmpo's direction.
As he exited the court, Antetokounmpo high-fived Milwaukee's general manager, Jon Horst, and the team owners.
In their postgame interviews, Antetokounmpo and Eric Bledsoe vowed to celebrate over cards on the plane back to Milwaukee.
"Hopefully I'll win a poker game and take some of Giannis' money," Bledsoe said, giggling.
"We know Bud will come with a great game plan, so we will leave it up to Bud to stress over."
The Pistons didn't relent easily.
Coach Dwane Casey swapped Luke Kennard out of the starting line up in place of Bruce Brown, giving Detroit's second unit a shooting boost.
The Pistons built a double-digit lead early in the first quarter.
But by the end of the period, their lead had been slashed to two.
The two teams exchanged points in the second quarter -- the lead bobbling back and forth.
At the half, the Pistons led by six.
The Bucks found their stride in the middle of the third quarter.
The Pistons were plagued by foul trouble and sent the Bucks to the free throw line 16 times in the third quarter alone.
By the end of the third, Detroit's advantage had disappeared.
Less than one minute into the fourth, the Bucks had built a 15-point lead.
From there, Blake Griffin fouled out and the Bucks never looked back.
"We just had to weather the storm," Bledsoe said.
"At the end of the day, they didn't want to get swept.
We knew they was going to come out aggressive."
While players were clearly excited to have won, there was also a feeling of inevitability that hung in the locker room.
The Bucks had, after all, swept the Pistons in the regular season and beat them by double digits in every game.
With the Game 4 win, the Bucks tied the 1986 Lakers for the second-highest point differential in a series sweep in NBA history, according to ESPN Stats & Information research.
Milwaukee was also the second team in postseason history to win their first four playoff games by at least 15 points, joining the 1980 Celtics.
The Bucks have said all the right things this series: that they are determined not to get ahead of themselves.
Players said they are taking the playoffs one game at a time.
Budenholzer said he found no solace in the fact that his team swept the Pistons in the regular season, and that they are not focused on what will happen in the second round because they needed to take care of business against the Pistons first.
Now business is taken care of and it's on to the next one.
The Boston Celtics loom ahead.
Last year, the Celtics were the Bucks' playoff death knell.
Milwaukee fell to Boston in a seven-game series -- the last of which took place at TD Garden.
Bledsoe struggled in that series, shooting just 44 percent from the field.
This year's Boston/Milwaukee series will have some new faces.
The Bucks added Brook Lopez to their starting lineup and signed veteran depth with George Hill and Nikola Mirotic.
Last year, Gordon Hayward and Kyrie Irving were sidelined with injuries for the Celtics.
At least for one night, the Bucks say they will try to put off worrying about their future opponent.
"We're going to enjoy this win tonight," Bledsoe said.
"And worry about them tomorrow."
After only one season on the job, Igor Kokoskov was fired as coach of the Phoenix Suns on Monday night.
The timing on the dismissal of Kokoskov, the first European-born NBA head coach, was partly rooted in a desire to compete against the Los Angeles Lakers in pursuit of Philadelphia 76ers assistant coach Monty Williams, league sources told ESPN.
"After extensive evaluation, I determined it is best to move in a different direction with our head coaching position," Suns general manager James Jones said in a news release.
"I want to thank Igor for his work this past season and wish him the best with his future endeavors."
The Lakers are planning on a second meeting with Williams later this week, assuming the Sixers defeat the Brooklyn Nets on Tuesday to end their first-round series.
The Lakers are also planning a second interview with Tyronn Lue.
ESPN Stats & Information The Suns have a stable of young talent that could grow to include the possible selection of Duke forward Zion Williamson or Murray State guard Ja Morant in the upcoming NBA draft.
Also, Jones played under Williams in his time as a Portland Trail Blazers assistant coach, and new senior VP of basketball operations Jeff Bower hired Williams as head coach of the New Orleans Pelicans in 2010.
Kokoskov is considered a superior offensive teacher of the game but fell victim to a roster devoid of point guards and an organizational dysfunction that has turned the franchise into a coaching graveyard.
The Suns' next coach will be their seventh in an eight-season span.
The Suns finished tied with the Cleveland Cavaliers for the second-worst record in the NBA at 19-63.
The New York Knicks were 17-65.
Phoenix was an NBA-worst 21-61 a year ago.
Since 2012-13, the Suns are 199-375, tied with the Orlando Magic for the worst record in the NBA in that span.
Information from ESPN's Stats & Information was used in this report.
Alabama Crimson Tide coach Nick Saban underwent hip replacement surgery on Monday and will be back to work soon, the school announced in a news release.
Dr. Lyle Cain, an orthopedic consultant with the athletic department, said the robotic-assisted procedure was successful on the 67-year-old coach.
"Coach is resting comfortably, and we anticipate a full recovery," Cain said in the release.
"He should be able to return to work in the very near future, and we'll have him back out on the golf course, with hopefully a few more yards off the tee, as soon as possible."
Alabama doesn't typically begin fall practice until early August, so Nick Saban will have more than three months to recover from the robotic-assisted hip replacement he underwent Monday.
AP Photo/Butch Dill Alabama doesn't typically begin fall practice until early August, so Saban will have more than three months to recover.
The Crimson Tide, who have won five championships in Saban's 12 seasons leading the program, open the season against Duke on Aug. 31.
Saban said he was bothered by his hip throughout the spring and wanted to get it fixed now, rather than let the problem become worse.
"I want to get it fixed because I don't want to coach for one more year -- I want to coach for a lot of more years," he told reporters following the spring game two weeks ago.
"So whenever things like this come up, I want to be aggressive and proactive to try and get it taken care of.
We'll certainly do that, and we've got really good people to do it."
With a Super Bowl win already under his belt, Russell Wilson keeps the Seahawks in contention every year, regardless of supporting cast.
(1:27) Quarterback Russell Wilson, fresh off signing a four-year, $140 million contract extension with the Seattle Seahawks, is thanking each of his offensive linemen with $12,000 in Amazon stock, ESPN confirmed on Monday.
TMZ was first to report the gifts.
In a letter to all 13 of Wilson's linemen, the highest-paid player in the NFL expressed his gratitude toward the men who protect him on Sundays.
"You sacrifice your physical and mental well-being to protect me, which in turn allows me to provide and care for my family," Wilson wrote.
"This does not go unnoticed and it is never forgotten."
Wilson went on to write that he wanted to give his linemen something that would have a lasting impact on their families' lives.
"You have invested in my life," Wilson wrote, "this is my investment into yours."
The 30-year-old Wilson reached an extension with the Seahawks that made him the highest-paid player in the league last week.
Bryce Harper apologizes for being ejected vs. the Mets and says he has not talked to Jake Arrieta following his postgame comments on Harper.
(0:26) NEW YORK -- Bryce Harper's first game at Citi Field as a member of the Philadelphia Phillies began with a long rain delay and ended with a short stay.
Harper was ejected in the top of the fourth inning of a 5-1 loss after chirping from the bench after he struck out looking on a high fastball.
Four batters after Harper struck out on the 2-2 pitch, during the middle of Cesar Hernandez's at-bat, umpire Mark Carlson ejected Harper.
Phillies manager Gabe Kapler rushed out of the dugout to argue.
Harper then sprinted out from the dugout sans helmet, and Kapler had to push him away from Carlson.
Harper continued to yell and point towards Carlson and had to be restrained.
"It just can't happen," Harper said.
"In a game like that against the Mets, division rival, things like that, it just can't happen.
For myself and this team, as well.
We're a better team with me in the lineup, and I gotta stay in that game."
It was Harper's 12th career ejection and, incredibly, the first Phillies player to get ejected from a game since Justin De Fratus on June 16, 2015.
Harper is second among active players in ejections, trailing only Matt Kemp, who has 14 and entered the majors six years before Harper.
"I have to stay in that game for the organization, the fans.
I have to do better," Harper said.
"These games matter.
They matter now, they matter in September."
Kapler didn't believe Harper deserved to be ejected.
"There was normal chirping from the dugout that is in every dugout every single night," he said.
"It was no different."
Kapler said the Phillies were not happy with Carlson's strike zone: "Our dugout did not agree with a lot of Mark's calls.
I think everyone can go back and look at the game and form their own opinions."
play 0:26 Harper on his ejection: 'I'm usually zero to a hundred anyway' Bryce Harper apologizes for being ejected vs. the Mets and says he has not talked to Jake Arrieta following his postgame comments on Harper.
The pitch Carlson rung up Harper on was a fastball up in the zone and on the outside corner, but certainly a reasonable call according to strike-zone data.
A previous called strike in the at-bat was even more borderline at the top of the zone.
Harper didn't say much to Carlson as he walked to the dugout after the call, but he apparently kept yelling from the bench.
He had also struck out in the first inning, taking two pitches for strikes from Steven Matz and then swinging through a 2-2 slider.
Harper is hitting .272/.410/.531 but has now struck out 29 times in 22 games and is on pace for 213 strikeouts.
He fanned a career-high 169 times last season in 159 games.
Almost every year it seems a memorable trade happens during the NFL draft as the clock ticks and the phones ring.
So which draft-day trade has had the biggest impact -- good or bad -- on each NFL franchise?
We asked our 32 NFL Nation reporters to look back at each team's most meaningful swap on draft weekend.
Some brought championships and others pain.
All of them were unforgettable.
Scan through all 32 teams by division, or click here to jump ahead to your team: AFC EAST The trade: Buffalo sent second- and fifth-round picks in 2004 and a first-round pick in 2005 to Dallas to select quarterback J.P. Losman at No.
22 overall in 2004.
The Bills already had selected wide receiver Lee Evans at No.
13 after missing out on quarterbacks Eli Manning, Philip Rivers and Ben Roethlisberger earlier in the draft.
Then-Buffalo general manager Tom Donahoe, in search of his quarterback of the future to replace Drew Bledsoe, traded back into the first round for Losman.
The Tulane product spent only one year (2006) as the full-time starter and failed to build on that 3,000-yard season.
Had the Bills kept their first-round pick in 2005, they could have selected Aaron Rodgers.
-- Mike Rodak The trade: In 2013, the Dolphins traded their first-round (No.
12) and second-round (No.
42) picks to Oakland to move up to No.
3 and select Oregon defensive end Dion Jordan.
The move turned out to be a big bust, with Jordan contributing little on the field and failing several drug tests -- including one that caused him to be suspended for the entire 2015 season.
He eventually was reinstated, retired, then was cut.
His Dolphins career ended with only three sacks, and Miami failed to make the playoffs, going 8-8 in each of the two seasons after he was selected.
The trade cost the Dolphins a chance to get two key contributors had they stayed put, and a look back at the players selected in the top 50 that year includes Sheldon Richardson (No.
13), Star Lotulelei (No.
14), Desmond Trufant (No.
22), Xavier Rhodes (No.
25), DeAndre Hopkins (No.
27), Travis Frederick (No.
31), Zach Ertz (No.
35), Darius Slay (No.
36) and Le'Veon Bell (No.
48).
-- Cameron Wolfe Randy Moss is tied for third on New England's all-time list for TD catches (50), and he did it in just three seasons (plus four games in 2010).
AP Photo/Winslow Townson The trade: New England acquired receiver Randy Moss from the Raiders for a fourth-round pick on April 30, 2007, the final day of the draft.
What a bargain.
Moss went on to set the NFL record for most touchdown receptions in a season (23), giving quarterback Tom Brady the elite No.
1 weapon he has so seldom had over his career.
In large part due to Moss' standout season, the Patriots posted a 16-0 regular-season record before they were upset by the Giants in Super Bowl XLII.
-- Mike Reiss The trade: On the morning of the 1980 draft, the Jets sent two first-round picks (No.
13 and No.
20) to the 49ers for the No.
2 pick to select receiver Johnny "Lam" Jones.
It turned out to be a bad move for the Jets, who selected the speedy Jones ahead of future Hall of Famers Anthony Munoz and Art Monk.
Jones, who died recently after a long bout with cancer, never lived up to expectations.
He finished with only 138 catches and 13 touchdowns.
-- Rich Cimini AFC NORTH The trade: In 1999, the Ravens traded their second-round pick (No.
43) for Atlanta's first-round pick in 2000, which they used to land running back Jamal Lewis.
The Falcons selected tight end Reggie Kelly, and the Ravens got what turned into the No.
5 overall pick in the 2000 draft.
Baltimore drafted Lewis, who carried the offense during the team's 2000 Super Bowl championship season and recorded the NFL's fifth 2,000-yard season in 2003.
-- Jamison Hensley The trade: The Bengals moved from No.
5 to No.
1 overall after sending their first- and second-round picks to the Panthers to select running back Ki-Jana Carter in the 1995 draft.
It was a rare move for a franchise not known for draft-day trades, and the ultimate example of "what could have been" for the team.
Carter signed a then-record seven-year, $19.2 million deal, but he played only three seasons with the Bengals.
He missed his rookie season with a torn ACL and was never the same.
The miss on that trade is representative of the futility of the franchise throughout the 1990s.
-- Katherine Terrell The trade: In 2014, the Browns traded the No.
4 pick to move down to No.
9.
After moving down, the Browns traded the No.
9 pick to move up to No.
8 to take cornerback Justin Gilbert.
This is the team that traded out of taking Julio Jones and traded up to take Johnny Manziel.
Drafting Gilbert was as large a mistake as taking Manziel; neither was committed to being an NFL player.
The better option: Stay at No.
4 and draft linebacker Khalil Mack, one of the best defensive players in the league.
-- Pat McManamon The trade: In 2003, the Steelers traded the No.
27, No.
92 and No.
200 picks to Kansas City for No.
16, which the Steelers used to select safety Troy Polamalu out of USC.
The Steelers are known as conservative when it comes to the draft.
Rarely do they make splashy moves.
But they needed to improve their secondary 16 years ago, and Polamalu was a true game-changer.
They worked the phones in the draft room throughout the first hour of the first round and relied on good relationships with the Chiefs.
The result: Pittsburgh got a future Hall of Famer.
-- Jeremy Fowler AFC SOUTH The trade: In 2017, general manager Rick Smith landed quarterback Deshaun Watson by trading the No.
25 pick and Houston's first-round pick in 2018 to the Browns for the No.
12 pick.
The Texans were in need of a franchise quarterback after sending Brock Osweiler to Cleveland following his lone season in Houston.
In his first two seasons with the Texans, Watson missed time with a torn ACL but completed 66.4 percent of his passes for 5,864 yards with 45 touchdowns and 17 interceptions in 23 games.
Houston had gone through eight starting quarterbacks after Bill O'Brien took over as coach in 2014 until Watson put a halt to the quarterback carousel.
-- Sarah Barshop The trade: On April 27, 2003, the Colts traded a fourth-round pick in 2004 to Houston for a fifth-rounder in 2003.
The Colts used that fifth-round pick (No.
138) to select pass-rusher Robert Mathis.
Mathis, who was considered an undersized player coming out Alabama A&M, finished his career with 123 sacks (19th on the all-time list) and was named to five Pro Bowls.
-- Mike Wells The trade: In 2008, the Jaguars traded up from No.
26 to No.
8 to select defensive end Derrick Harvey.
Jacksonville gave up a lot -- No.
26, two third-round picks and a fourth-round pick -- to Baltimore for the No.
8 pick.
The Jaguars were coming off a playoff appearance, had signed QB David Garrard to a long-term deal and believed they were close to being a Super Bowl team if they could improve their pass rush.
Harvey held out for 38 days, recorded 3.5 sacks as a rookie and totaled 8.0 sacks in three seasons before being cut with two years remaining on his contract.
The Jaguars, by the way, wouldn't make the playoffs again until 10 years later.
What makes this trade even worse for the Jaguars is the Ravens used the No.
26 pick and one of the third-round picks from the Jaguars to move up to No.
18 and take QB Joe Flacco, a move that resulted in six playoff appearances in the next seven seasons and a victory in Super Bowl XLVII.
-- Michael DiRocco The trade: In 1997, the franchise (then the Oilers) sent two picks (No.
13 and No.
110) to the Chiefs for four selections -- Nos.
18, 81, 116 and 181.
With the No.
13 pick the Chiefs selected Hall of Famer Tony Gonzalez, who went on to become one of the best tight ends in history.
Although defensive end Kenny Holmes (No.
18) had a solid NFL career, tackle Scott Sanderson (No.
81) and linebacker Dennis Stallings (No.
181) didn't pan out.
The Titans/Oilers traded pick No.
116 and a sixth-round pick (No.
165) to the Saints for pick No.
107, moving up to select defensive end Pratt Lyons.
Losing out on a chance to select Gonzalez was a tough pill to swallow.
-- Turron Davenport AFC WEST The trade: During the 2009 draft, the Broncos shipped their 2010 first-round pick to the Seattle Seahawks to move up in the second round to select cornerback Alphonso Smith.
The trade for future Hall of Famer John Elway will always be the franchise's most impactful deal, but it was completed several days after the 1983 draft had finished.
Denver also traded up in the first round in 2016 to select quarterback Paxton Lynch, who didn't win training camp battles for the starting job in back-to-back years and then was released when he didn't win the backup job in last summer's training camp -- his third with the team.
But the Smith trade is the all-time head-scratcher.
He played just one season with the Broncos before he was traded to the Detroit Lions.
And the Seahawks used that 2010 first-round pick to select ... safety Earl Thomas.
-- Jeff Legwold play 1:52 Riddick: Mahomes the greatest NFL draft-day trade of all time Louis Riddick and Victor Cruz evaluate the trade that netted Pat Mahomes for the Chiefs in the NFL draft.
The trade: In 2017, the Chiefs traded first- and third-round picks plus a first-rounder in 2018 to move up from No.
27 to No.
10 to select Texas Tech quarterback Patrick Mahomes.
This might be the most impactful trade in team history, period.
Acquiring Mahomes secured Kansas City's spot near the top of the AFC for the foreseeable future.
Last season he became the second quarterback in NFL history to throw 50 touchdown passes and for more than 5,000 yards.
That he did so in the season in which he turned 23 suggests Mahomes will be posting big numbers for the Chiefs for years to come.
-- Adam Teicher The trade: In 2004, the Chargers traded quarterback Eli Manning to the New York Giants for quarterback Philip Rivers, a 2004 third-round pick (kicker Nate Kaeding) and a 2005 first-round pick (linebacker Shawne Merriman), and a fifth-round pick (tackle Roman Oben).
Manning didn't want to play in San Diego and he got his wish, with Chargers GM A.J.
Smith selecting him No.
1 overall and then shipping him to the Giants.
In return, the Chargers received Rivers and part of a nucleus that led the Bolts to four straight AFC West titles from 2006 to 2009.
Although Manning went on to win two Super Bowls -- and Rivers has yet to reach the NFL title game -- Rivers is 3-0 head-to-head against Manning.
-- Eric D. Williams The trade: On Day 3 of the 2010 draft, the Raiders traded their fourth-round pick in the 2012 draft to Washington for quarterback Jason Campbell.
Campbell was compared to Jim Plunkett by Al Davis after the deal.
Yes, a mere three years after Oakland used the top overall pick on JaMarcus Russell, who would be waived 12 days later.
In Campbell's first season in Oakland, the Raiders went 8-8 (6-0 in the AFC West) for their first non-losing season in eight years, and he was humming in 2011 as the Raiders got off to a 4-2 start before his season ended with a broken collarbone in Week 6.
That set the stage for Hue Jackson's power grab with the "greatest trade in football" for Carson Palmer, and it took years for the franchise to recover.
Though he never played for the Raiders again, Campbell, at 11-7, is still the only Raiders quarterback since Rich Gannon played his last game in 2004 to have a winning record for Oakland.
-- Paul Gutierrez NFC EAST The trade: In 1990, Dallas traded its first- and third-round picks to the Pittsburgh Steelers to move up four spots to No.
17 to take Emmitt Smith.
The Cowboys had hoped to select linebacker James Francis in the first round when the draft began, but he went to Cincinnati with the No.
12 pick.
Smith kept dropping, so the Cowboys made a move for the player who formed the "Triplets" with Michael Irvin and Troy Aikman and helped the team to three Super Bowl wins in a four-year span.
All Smith did was become the NFL's all-time leading rusher, league MVP, Super Bowl MVP, an eight-time Pro Bowler and a Hall of Famer.
The Smith deal can be traced back to the Herschel Walker trade in 1989, but the draft-day move for Smith made the Cowboys the team of the 1990s.
-- Todd Archer The trade: In 2004, the Giants traded Philip Rivers, a third-round pick in 2004, and first- and fifth-round picks in 2005 to the San Diego Chargers for Eli Manning.
The Chargers took Manning against his will and the Giants selected Rivers at No.
4 overall with the hope that it would net them Manning.
It eventually did in a trade that turned into a win-win.
The Chargers received Rivers and turned their picks into kicker Nate Kaeding, pass-rusher Shawne Merriman and tackle Roman Oben.
The Giants did even better.
They won two Super Bowls with Manning, considered by most the best quarterback in franchise history and a potential Hall of Famer.
-- Jordan Raanan The trade: In 1995, Philly gave up the No.
12 pick and a pair of second-rounders to Tampa Bay, moving up to No.
7 to select Mike Mamula.
The deal for Mamula, a defensive end out of Boston College whose stock got a significant bump because of his combine performance, still haunts Eagles fans.
He wasn't a total bust (31.5 career sacks) but played only five seasons because of injury.
The Bucs, meanwhile, used the No.
12 pick to select Warren Sapp and then dealt one of the two second-round picks to move up and select linebacker Derrick Brooks.
Both ended up in the Hall of Fame and were centerpieces of a championship team.
-- Tim McManus play 1:58 Bill Barnwell cooks up absurd draft trade After an offseason in which Odell Beckham Jr. and Antonio Brown were traded, it now seems like no NFL news could surprise us -- even a four-team draft-day trade that has the Cardinals selecting Kyler Murray with the first overall pick.
The trade: In 1999, the Redskins traded the No.
12 overall pick and four other picks to Chicago to move up to No.
7, where they selected future Hall of Fame cornerback Champ Bailey.
Before that move, the Redskins had traded the fifth overall pick to New Orleans in exchange for eight draft picks, with two coming in 2000.
That gave the Redskins the ammunition to move up for Bailey -- the player they wanted all along.
Despite the haul from New Orleans, the Redskins drafted only six players in 1999 and four didn't provide any help.
After moving up in the first round, they did it again in the second, selecting tackle Jon Jansen, a solid seven-year starter.
Washington did keep the Saints' first-round pick in 2000, which ended up being No.
2, and selected linebacker LaVar Arrington.
-- John Keim NFC NORTH The trade: In 2017, the Bears traded picks Nos.
3, 67 and 111 and a 2018 third-round selection to the San Francisco 49ers to move up one spot and take North Carolina quarterback Mitchell Trubisky second overall.
Chicago had a glaring need at quarterback, but few expected Bears general manager Ryan Pace to go all-in on Trubisky, who started just one full season for the Tar Heels.
Trubisky led Chicago to the playoffs last season, passing for 3,223 yards and 24 touchdowns with 12 interceptions (95.4 passer rating).
He might never be mentioned in the same breath as the league's elite passers, but Chicago appears to have stabilized its quarterback position for years to come, courtesy of its draft-day deal with San Francisco.
-- Jeff Dickerson Draft Academy Draft Academy documents the journey of six prospects: Nick Bosa, Marquise Brown, Drew Lock, Tyree Jackson, Jarrett Stidham and Josh Jacobs.
Watch on ESPN+ The trade: In 1993, the Lions sent the No.
8 pick in that draft and a fourth-rounder (No.
89) to the Saints for linebacker Pat Swilling.
The Lions really wanted Swilling -- they had tried to sign him before but failed -- but the deal didn't work out for them.
The No.
8 pick became Hall of Fame offensive tackle Willie Roaf.
Including Roaf, four of the next six picks were Pro Bowlers.
The fourth-rounder turned into Pro Bowl fullback Lorenzo Neal.
Swilling was a Pro Bowler in 1993, but he never truly matched his New Orleans production with the Lions, registering 10 sacks before heading to Oakland, where he had 21 sacks in his last three years.
-- Michael Rothstein The trade: In 1991, the Packers traded back with the Eagles from No.
8 to No.
19 in the first round and picked up a first-round pick in the 1992 draft.
Neither one of those picks directly resulted in a player worth noting -- the Packers picked Ohio State cornerback Vinny Clark at No.
19 in 1991 and they traded away the 1992 first-round pick.
However, it was that extra first-rounder in 1992 that first-year GM Ron Wolf traded to the Falcons the following offseason for Brett Favre.
Without a second first-round pick that year, maybe Wolf wouldn't have made the Favre trade -- a deal that began the turnaround from decades of losing.
-- Rob Demovsky The trade: In 2012, the Vikings traded back into the first round to select safety Harrison Smith.
The Vikings had already made one splash move during this draft, trading back one spot from No.
3 to No.
4 to get Matt Kalil (the player they wanted all along) and three other draft picks in fleecing the Browns by convincing them that another team was going to trade with the Vikings to get Trent Richardson, the player Cleveland really wanted.
But Minnesota's biggest and longest-lasting impact came when general manager Rick Spielman decided he wasn't done on the first night of the draft.
Minnesota had been eyeing Notre Dame's Smith but wasn't convinced he'd be there when the Vikings were set to pick again at No.
35 in the second round.
To avoid missing out on a future Pro Bowler, Spielman sent a fourth-round pick to Baltimore to move up to No.
29 to draft Smith.
Since that day, Smith has become an irreplaceable staple in the Vikings' defense and is routinely regarded as the most versatile safety in the NFL.
-- Courtney Cronin NFC SOUTH Atlanta's Julio Jones reached 10,000 receiving yards faster than any other player (104 games) and is the first receiver with five 1,400-yard seasons.
AP Photo/David J. Phillip The trade: In 2011, the Falcons traded five draft picks -- No.
27, their second-round pick (No.
59) and fourth-round pick (No.
124), along with their first- and fourth-round picks in 2012 -- to move up to No.
6 and select wide receiver Julio Jones.
Maybe it sounded like a crazy idea at the time, but general manager Thomas Dimitroff's gamble paid off when Jones developed into arguably the best wide receiver in the game.
Meanwhile, none of the players the Browns acquired as a result of those draft picks -- Phil Taylor, Greg Little, Brandon Weeden, Owen Marecic and Trent Richardson -- is currently in the league.
Safe to say the Falcons won the trade.
-- Vaughn McClure The trade: In 2008, the Panthers traded picks in the second round (No.
43) and fourth round (No.
109), plus a first-round pick in 2009, to Philadelphia to get back into the first round (No.
19) for offensive tackle Jeff Otah.
The Panthers, who had selected running back Jonathan Stewart at No.
13, felt they were on the verge of a Super Bowl, so they moved up for Otah.
He started 25 games his first two seasons, then developed knee issues that basically ended his career.
The Eagles turned the 2009 pick (No.
28) into a trade with Buffalo to get tackle Jason Peters, who went on to become an eight-time Pro Bowl selection.
The Panthers already had 2006 first-round pick DeAngelo Williams at running back when they took Stewart.
They could have taken a tackle at No.
13, and had the option of Jamaal Charles or even Ray Rice in the second round without losing a pick.
The domino effect after a 12-4 2008 season was four straight non-winning seasons.
-- David Newton play 1:55 Riddick: Ricky Williams draft trade wouldn't happen today Adam Schefter could see a team trading its entire draft for Trevor Lawrence, like the Saints did for Ricky Williams in 1999, but Louis Riddick disagrees.
The trade: In 1999, the Saints traded eight picks for Ricky Williams.
Twenty years later, this still reigns as perhaps the most ridiculed trade in NFL history.
Saints coach Mike Ditka was so enamored with the Heisman Trophy-winning running back that he sent all of New Orleans' 1999 draft picks, plus a first- and third-rounder in 2000, just to move up from No.
12 to No.
5.
In truth, the deal didn't set the franchise back that far (the Saints won their first-ever playoff game in 2000 and wound up trading Williams to Miami for two first-round picks in 2002).
But it was a flop in the immediate aftermath, when the Saints went 3-13 in 1999 and Ditka was fired.
And those pictures of Ditka in dreadlocks and Williams in a wedding dress will forever live in infamy.
-- Mike Triplett The trade: In 1995, the Bucs traded from No.
7 to No.
12 and selected Miami defensive tackle Warren Sapp.
Tampa Bay also received the No.
43 and No.
63 picks, and sent No.
72 to Philly.
The Bucs then traded No.
63 and their own second-round pick to the Cowboys to get back into the first round to select Florida State linebacker Derrick Brooks at No.
28.
Sapp and Brooks became first-ballot Hall of Famers, marking just the third time in NFL history that two Hall of Famers were selected by the same team in the same round.
Tampa Bay transformed into one of the most vaunted defenses in the league for a decade and won Super Bowl XXXVII.
Prior to Sapp and Brooks, the Bucs had just one Hall of Famer (Lee Roy Selmon).
-- Jenna Laine NFC WEST The trade: In 2017, Arizona traded up with Chicago, from No.
45 to No.
36, to select safety Budda Baker.
It was a major move by the Cardinals for the University of Washington product -- a player who could have a long-lasting impact on their defense.
Arizona gave up a lot -- its fourth- and sixth-round picks and a fourth-round pick in 2018 -- for Baker and Chicago's seventh-round pick, but the move has worked.
Baker already has established himself as an elite defender on the field, was named to the Pro Bowl as a rookie, and he's also a fan favorite -- a role once occupied by the departed Tyrann Mathieu.
-- Josh Weinfuss The trade: In 1996, the Rams traded running back Jerome Bettis and a third-round pick to the Steelers in exchange for a second-round pick in 1996 and a fourth-round pick in 1997.
With the second-round pick, the Rams selected tight end Ernie Conwell, and in 1997 the fourth-round pick was bundled in a trade.
The Rams deemed Bettis expendable after they selected Nebraska running back Lawrence Phillips with the No.
6 pick in 1996.
Bettis went on to win a Super Bowl in his Hall of Fame career.
Phillips, who had extraordinary talent but known character issues, was released during his second season.
-- Lindsey Thiry The trade: In 1985, San Francisco traded its first-, second- and third-round picks (Nos.
28, 56 and 84) to the New England Patriots for their first- and third-round picks (Nos.
16 and 75).
Forget the most impactful draft-day trade in franchise history -- this move has a strong case for the biggest draft-day deal in the history of the league.
The defending Super Bowl champion 49ers used the pick to select Jerry Rice at No.
16, helping to elevate the two-time champions into a full-fledged dynasty.
Rice went on to set every major receiving record and stake his claim as one of the greatest players in NFL history.
The players the Patriots got with their picks -- center Trevor Matich, defensive end Ben Thomas and defensive back Audray McMillian -- combined to play less than five full seasons for the Patriots.
-- Nick Wagoner The trade: In 1997, the Seahawks traded with Tampa Bay to go from No.
12 to No.
6, where they took future Hall of Famer Walter Jones.
It took only a third-round pick to move up six spots and land one of the best left tackles in NFL history.
What's more, the future of the Seahawks was up in the air at the time, with Paul Allen having agreed to buy the team and keep it in Seattle on the condition that the public approve an initiative in June to help fund a new stadium.
Then-owner Ken Behring wanted to trade both of the team's first-round picks because he didn't want to pay the hefty signing bonuses, so when Allen stepped up to foot the bill even though he had no assurance that he would eventually buy the team from Behring, it sent a strong message to voters about the type of owner he would be.
-- Brady Henderson
Only one first-round NBA playoff series (Celtics-Pacers) is over, but six more teams are on the brink of elimination.
Which players and teams have been the biggest surprises and disappointments so far?
And what does this mean for the rest of the postseason and the future of these franchises?
Our NBA experts break down the notable teams in each conference, including the Boston Celtics, Oklahoma City Thunder, Portland Trail Blazers and Philadelphia 76ers.
Plus, they make predictions for what will happen the rest of the way.
1.
What has been the biggest surprise so far in the East?
Kirk Goldsberry: Boston's sweep.
Just when I was about to give up on the soap-opera Celtics, they had the exact series they needed versus Indiana, and they suddenly look like a dangerous opponent for anyone.
Of course, the Pacers were short-handed, but Boston did everything it needed to do to gain confidence going into a second-round series against the vaunted Milwaukee Bucks.
If the Celtics coalesce, look out.
Editor's Picks How Klay Thompson got his team ready for Game 4 Lowe: James Harden is breaking the blueprint that embarrassed him 1 Related Kevin Pelton: I don't think any of the teams have been particularly surprising, so I'll go with something I mentioned on Monday's Hoop Collective podcast: the ability of Boban Marjanovic to stay on the court for extended minutes.
Marjanovic already has logged more playing time than he did in the 2016 playoffs for the Spurs, when his pick-and-roll defense was an issue.
Boban's role has been crucial for the 76ers given Joel Embiid missing a game and the team needing to limit Embiid's minutes when he is active.
Tim Bontemps: Jared Dudley's leap into the national consciousness.
Dudley has had a long, fine career in the NBA, taking Shane Battier's place as one of the league's premier advanced-stat-darling role players.
But in this series against the 76ers, Dudley has become a huge factor, both because of his ongoing feud with Ben Simmons (though that began with his initial comments about Simmons being taken a fair bit out of context) and for his role in the Game 4 fracas after Embiid's second hard foul of the first round on Jarrett Allen.
The playoffs always create surprising storylines and personal battles, and Dudley's emergence in this way in Brooklyn is no different.
Andr Snellings: The way that the Magic and Nets both came out and punched their more powerful opponents in the mouth on the road in their opening games.
The East is very stratified, especially since Victor Oladipo's untimely injury, with four teams that are head and shoulders above the others.
It wouldn't have surprised me if all four series were sweeps, so it was startling to see the Magic and Nets come in and win.
It appears that the more powerful teams have since taken control, but those we're-coming/we-ain't-scared first impressions bode well for the future in Brooklyn and Orlando.
Bobby Marks: The play of Tobias Harris.
After the Game 1 loss to Brooklyn, in which Harris had four points, people were ready to label him a regular-season player.
Now heading into Game 5, the forward has become the 76ers' most consistent option.
Not only has Harris averaged 24 points and nine rebounds and shot 50 percent from the field in the three straight wins, but the 76ers are plus-19.3 when he's on the floor.
Without the play of Harris, Philadelphia would be looking at a 3-1 deficit, on the verge of being eliminated in the first round.
2.
What has been the biggest surprise so far in the West?
Pelton: How Portland has controlled the series against Oklahoma City.
The Blazers have had answers for everything that ailed them in last season's sweep by the New Orleans Pelicans.
When the Thunder have forced the ball out of the hands of Damian Lillard and CJ McCollum, fellow starters Al-Farouq Aminu, Enes Kanter and Maurice Harkless have made big plays.
And Lillard and McCollum have been forces without forcing the issue.
Snellings: I am probably higher on the Rockets than just about anyone, and it's still shocking how easily they've handled the Jazz so far.
The Jazz were considered almost dark-horse contenders after finishing the season 30-11 in the second half, but the Rockets are dismantling them.
The Jazz lost the first two games in the series by a combined 52 points, then returned home and couldn't win even with James Harden having a historically awful shooting night.
The gap between the No.
4 and 5 seeds in the West wasn't supposed to be this large.
Marks: The resiliency of the young players in Denver.
It is rare that we are writing about a No.
2 seed as a surprise with the series tied 2-2, but the Nuggets have played their best basketball when backed into a corner.
We saw it in Game 2 when Jamal Murray scored 21 points in the fourth quarter as the Nuggets came back in a must-win game.
After dropping Game 3 on the road, facing the possibility of returning home in a 3-1 hole, Denver played its most complete game of the season.
Out of Denver's 117 points scored, 97 were from players who had never won a road playoff game.
Goldsberry: The Blazers.
Coming out of last year's epic playoff debacle, Portland looks like a completely different animal this postseason.
Lillard has been brilliant.
McCollum has been strong.
But they've managed to survive the Jusuf Nurkic injury in part because Kanter has been solid, even on defense.
I did not see that coming.
Bontemps: I thought Oklahoma City would beat Portland, mostly because I thought Portland was sunk after the devastating season-ending injury to Nurkic.
Instead, the Blazers look like they're going to make it to the Western Conference semis, and I would pick them as the favorites on their side of the bracket to make the West finals.
Lillard has completely outplayed Russell Westbrook, and the always-underrated Terry Stotts has done an excellent job of coaxing better play out of Portland's supporting cast.
After years of playoff failures in the Pacific Northwest, a combination of Portland's play and the bracket breaking in the right direction could lead to the kind of breakthrough for which Lillard and the Blazers have been dying.
Zach Beeker/NBAE/Getty Images 3.
What has been the biggest disappointment so far in the East?
Marks: Indiana.
The disappointment is not with the Pacers getting swept by the Celtics but what might have been had Victor Oladipo not suffered a season-ending right knee injury in late January.
At the time, the Pacers were rolling.
Though Indiana stayed afloat, winning 48 games, the playoffs showed the challenge of manufacturing offense without Oladipo on the court.
The Pacers averaged 95.8 points per 100 possessions, down from 109.3 in the regular season.
2019 NBA Playoffs Find everything you need to know about the opening round of the playoffs here.
NBA playoffs mega-preview Schedules, matchups and more Biggest surprises and disappointments Harden is breaking the plan to stop him Snellings: The status of Joel Embiid's knee.
Though he has played in three of four games thus far, the fact that he has missed time and been listed as questionable or doubtful is very concerning for a team that otherwise could have legitimate championship aspirations.
The top of the East shapes up as a slugfest, and Embiid should be right in the middle of it.
If his knee issues persist, it could rob us of what should be some classic basketball over the next few weeks.
Bontemps: As a neutral party, I view the biggest disappointment as the Nets failing to win Game 4 and make sure this series with the Sixers -- easily the most entertaining one of the first round, regardless of conference -- goes at least six games.
Nets-Sixers has had it all -- drama on and off the court, big individual performances, contrasts in styles, strategic adjustments; you name it, this series has had it.
Now, though, it is likely to end Tuesday in Philadelphia, where the Sixers can close things out on their home court in Game 5.
Goldsberry: The Pistons.
They showed some intriguing signs of competence late in the season, but they simply didn't look like they belonged in the playoffs.
Yes, Blake Griffin missed the first two games with injury, but even with him available, they couldn't put anything together.
This once-proud franchise now has lost an NBA-record 14 playoff games in a row.
If that's not a disappointment, I don't know what is.
Pelton: Nikola Vucevic, so good during a regular season that resulted in both his first All-Star nod and his first playoff appearance in Orlando, has been unable to reach the same level during the playoffs.
He's averaging just 12.5 points on 37.5 percent shooting and was largely a nonfactor in the Magic's Game 1 win.
Granted, playing against Marc Gasol and Serge Ibaka is a challenge, but Orlando has needed more from Vucevic.
4.
What has been the biggest disappointment so far in the West?
Bontemps: I'll give this as a tie to Utah and Oklahoma City (and specifically Russell Westbrook).
Utah losing to Houston is one thing; Utah getting annihilated in the first two games of this series is another.
The Jazz were much better in Game 3, but they still couldn't find a way to win a game at home in which James Harden went 3-of-20 from the floor, and now they could get swept out of the playoffs.
Westbrook, meanwhile, is shooting 36 percent from the floor, and the Thunder look like they're about to lose in the first round for a third straight season.
When the bracket broke the way it did, with Golden State and Houston on the opposite side, that's not what the Thunder were expecting to happen.
Marks: Russell Westbrook.
Though there is plenty of blame to go around (including the lack of shooting on the roster), all eyes are on Westbrook.
After shooting 5-of-20 in a Game 2 loss on the road, Westbrook scored one point in the second half at home in Game 4.
That loss has Oklahoma City down 3-1 and on the verge of losing in the first round yet again.
Pelton: The Utah Jazz failing to win a game thus far against the Houston Rockets.
I expected this to be the closest first-round series, but the Rockets dominated at home and pulled out a win in Salt Lake City despite James Harden missing his first 15 shots, putting them a game away from a sweep.
Utah could join the 2004 Memphis Grizzlies and 2008 Denver Nuggets as just the third team since the first round went to best-of-seven to win at least 50 games during the regular season and none in the playoffs.
Snellings: The two best teams in the conference won't face each other in the conference finals.
Last season's Western Conference finals -- between the defending champion Warriors and the top-seeded Rockets -- was the de facto NBA championship due to the inequity between the East and West.
This season, that matchup appears destined to occur in the second round, too early and with the stage not fully set to appreciate the magnitude.
Of course, the cynic might point out that having the Rockets and Warriors play in the second round could be a benefit due to the history of health issues on both sides, so perhaps playing earlier can prevent any more major injuries from marring the outcome.
Goldsberry: Utah, Utah, Utah.
The Jazz played terrific basketball after the All-Star break but have looked terrible in the first round.
Not only has their great defense failed to show up, but they have the worst offensive rating of any West playoff team.
One big problem: 3-point shooting.
They've made only 25.5 percent of their 3s against Houston, and Jae Crowder, Thabo Sefolosha and Joe Ingles have each been worse than that.
Yuck!
5.
What is your bold prediction for the rest of the postseason?
Snellings: The dominant Warriors, winners of three of the past four NBA championships, will not win the title this season.
There is a very good chance that they don't even make the conference finals, as the Rockets appear poised to take them down.
The team that represents the East also has a very legitimate shot to take down the representative from the West.
Said another way: If given the choice between the Warriors and the field, this season I'm taking the field.
Goldsberry: The Larry O'Brien Trophy is moving East.
Like Andre, I think the Warriors are vulnerable, but I also think whoever comes out of the East will take home the title.
Pelton: Nikola Jokic, currently 0.7 assists per game away, averages a triple-double.
Bontemps: That Golden State beats Houston in five games in the Western Conference semifinals.
For all of the growing belief that the Rockets can beat the Warriors in a series, I think that the Warriors -- if healthy -- will end that series more quickly than many would expect.
And here's a bonus one: Toronto will win the East.
Marks: A Joel Embiid flagrant foul will cost Philadelphia a chance at reaching the conference finals.
After picking up flagrant fouls in Games 2 and 4, Embiid is two points shy of serving a one-game suspension.
Bryce Harper apologizes for being ejected vs. the Mets and says he has not talked to Jake Arrieta following Arrieta's postgame comments on him.
(0:26) NEW YORK -- Let's put it this way: Nobody looks better when he's getting ejected from a game than Bryce Harper: Bryce Harper wasn't having it tonight pic.twitter.com/DwnzRMtX46 ESPN (@espn) April 23, 2019 Harper was ejected for the 12th time in his career in the Philadelphia Phillies' 5-1 loss to the New York Mets on Monday, but at least it was a display of modern art worthy of a showing at the Guggenheim.
Consider the mechanics of this particular ejection: (1) It came four batters after Harper had been called out on strikes in the top of the fourth inning.
Like a carefully crafted movie script, he simply let the tension build until the moment called for some action.
(2) He let Phillies manager Gabe Kapler spring first out of the dugout, creating added tension and confusion as to what exactly was going on.
(3) Notice that Harper, in his fury to charge after umpire Mark Carlson, slipped on the dugout steps.
This could have been a disastrous moment for Harper and the Phillies, a freak injury if he had twisted an ankle or knee.
(4) Kapler shoved him out of the way before Harper can get to Carlson.
Again, maybe a lucky break for the Phillies given Kapler is maybe the only manager with the appropriate upper-body strength to hold off Harper.
(5) Harper went out with a blaze of glory, continuing to yell and point toward Carlson, his magnificently coiffed hair on full display.
OK, more seriously, it's not all fun and games when you lose your No.
3 hitter midway through what was a 2-1 game against a key division opponent.
Harper admitted as much after the game.
Editor's Picks Here's how Bryce Harper is doing with the Phillies so far Power Rankings: New challengers vie for No.
1 How Christian Yelich became a future Hall of Famer in 400 plate appearances 2 Related "It just can't happen.
In a game like that, against the Mets, division rival, things like that, it just can't happen," he said.
"For myself and this team as well.
We're a better team with me in the lineup and I gotta stay in that game.
These games matter.
They matter now, they matter in September."
Teammate Jake Arrieta, who picked up the loss in the game, admonished Harper after the game: "We need him in right field.
I don't care how bad the umpire is.
He wasn't great for either side.
I'm out there, trying to make pitches, he misses some calls, so what.
We need [Bryce] out there."
Kapler was obviously not happy after the game, although he defended Harper and said Carlson's ejection wasn't fair.
"There was normal chirping from the dugout that is in every dugout every single night," he said.
"It was no different."
Nonetheless, considering the ejection came four batters after Harper had struck out, the chirping had obviously tested Carlson's patience.
As Arrieta suggested, ultimately the responsibility sits with the player to remain in the game.
In the video, you can see Harper still on the top step of the dugout.
He could have said his peace as he walked away from the batter's box and then stewed on the bench.
Of course, Harper isn't new to ejections.
Among active players, only Matt Kemp has more with 14 -- and Kemp reached the majors six years before Harper.
Yunel Escobar is third on the active list with nine and I'm not sure he's even still active considering he last appeared in the big leagues in 2017.
Is Harper too much of a hothead?
Does he have a reputation with the umpires, fair or not?
Hard to say.
His 12 ejections have come from 12 different umpires: Date Umpire Trigger event 8/29/2012 CB Bucknor Call at first base (threw helmet) 5/5/2013 John Hirschbeck Checked swing (threw bat, helmet) 7/13/2013 Hunter Wendelstedt Called third strike 5/13/2015 Rob Drake Checked swing 5/20/2015 Marvin Hudson Balls and strikes 7/31/2015 Jerry Meals Called third strike 5/9/2016 Brian Knight Balls and strikes 8/27/2016 Mike Winters Called third strike (slammed bat) 5/29/2017 Brian Gorman Fighting (threw helmet) 7/26/2017 Chris Segal Balls and strikes 9/20/2018 D.J.
Rayburn Called third strike 4/22/2019 Mark Carlson Balls and strikes Harper didn't have a ready explanation for this ejection.
"I'm usually zero-to-a-hundred anyways, so I feel like all my ejections it's usually pretty calm and then 'bam,' once it happens, try to let it out, I guess."
What It's Like To Lose Your Job To Bryce Harper When the Phillies signed You Know Who, Nick Williams was afraid to buy furniture -- because he was pretty darned sure he was about to be traded.
Eddie Matz But Harper isn't a young kid anymore.
He's in his eighth season in the majors.
He knows questionable calls are part of the game -- and the two in the fourth inning weren't even that questionable.
As one of the expected leaders of the team, Harper can't allow himself to cross the line or give an umpire the excuse to send him to the showers early.
He knows this.
"I have to stay in that game for the organization, the fans.
I have to do better," he said.
The Phillies went down quietly after the ejection as well, with Mets pitchers retiring the final 16 batters in a row as the Phillies dropped their fourth game in five.
Harper has to do better on Tuesday, but so do the rest of his teammates.
When Christian Yelich showed up for the 2018 All-Star Game as a reserve, we all thought we knew who he was: above-average power, above-average speed, above-average defense, pretty good but unexceptional at everything.
Yelich wasn't a superstar but certainly good enough to be, say, the fourth-best player on a championship team.
Then in the eighth inning of that game Yelich homered, and in the 400 plate appearances since then he's been the National League's best player.
It's easy to overstate 400 plate appearances, even 400 plate appearances as good as Christian Yelich's past 400 have been.
Good players go through long and surprising hot streaks.
Even mediocre players do sometimes.
Careers last 20 or 30 times that long, and a player's 400 best plate appearances get consumed by the much larger record.
A stunningly sad Marlins tradition Of the 25 greatest players in franchise history, the Miami Marlins have now traded ... wait for it ... 23!
Sam Miller But what Yelich has done is different.
What we've seen the Milwaukee Brewers slugger do since July 2018 isn't necessarily unprecedented, but it is historic, because we've most likely just seen a player make the Hall of Fame.
A few years ago, I looked at how many WAR a player needed to produce by each age level to be more likely to make the Hall of Fame than not.
In other words: Of all the players who had at least X WAR through each age, half made the Hall and half did not.
We called "X" the 50 percent probability.
Through age 25, Christian Yelich was right on the bubble.
The 50 percent probability mark for 25-year-olds was about 18 WAR, and Yelich had about 19.
For 26-year-olds, the mark was 20 WAR.
Through the All-Star break last year, Yelich had 21.
He was narrowly on the right side of the line, but you'd have probably been wise to bet against him.
The probability mark is a bit of a logical fallacy, generously lumping in those bubble players with the surefire Hall of Famers who had many more WAR at that age.
(If 50 percent of players with 18 or more WAR through age 25 make the Hall, far, far, far fewer than 50 percent of players with 20 or fewer WAR do.)
The 50 percent probability is less a promise than a guide for figuring out which players' chances are most in flux, like Yelich's.
But Yelich's skill set was also not one likely to be recognized by future voters.
He'd never led the league in any statistical category, never hit more than 21 homers or stolen 21 bases, never finished higher than 19th in MVP voting -- itself a good proxy for the sorts of things these same voters would reward a decade or two hence.
The 2018 All-Star Game was his first appearance.
His most comparable player through age 25, according to Baseball-Reference.com, was Chet Lemon, followed by Johnny Damon.
Only one of his 10 most comparable predecessors (Dave Winfield) made the Hall.
Then the All-Star Game happened, and the players came back for the second half, and less than a year later the bubble candidate isn't really on the bubble anymore.
To understand how much Yelich's case improved requires a quick rundown of before-and-after snapshots.
At the All-Star break last year, Yelich was hitting .292/.364/.459, and for his career he was a .288/.365/.435 hitter.
By OPS+, he was around the 350th best hitter of all time (minimum 3,000 plate appearances), tied with Mike Greenwell, Shane Mack and Chili Davis.
Since then, he has hit .364/.451/.792.
In just 400 plate appearances, his career OPS has gone up by 51 points, and those 51 points -- those 400 plate appearances!
-- have moved him up more than 200 spots on the career OPS+ leaderboard.
He's now ahead of Carl Yastrzemski, Tony Gwynn, Winfield and Eddie Murray.
There are still plenty of non-HOF hitters around him, but remember that Yelich was always a do-everything player, and his raw offensive stats now join his baserunning and defensive value to make a player with elite value and bold-ink stats.
He ended his age-25 year as the 143rd best player ever through that age by WAR.
He ended his age-26 season 88th, with 26.5 WAR, ahead of dozens of non-controversial Hall of Famers.
He's not a lock to make the Hall by any means; his career will also have to be built on longevity, as any Hall of Famer's does.
But he's now on his way.
This year, he's third in baseball (behind Cody Bellinger and Mike Trout) with 1.9 WAR through Sunday.
Just three more WAR this year -- in line with his pre-explosion career levels -- would push him past 31 career WAR, even further ahead of the Hall of Fame pace, which is about 23 WAR through age 27.
Which of baseball's most unbreakable records might actually get broken in 2019?
74 home runs?
384 strikeouts?
A 57-game hitting streak?
History could be made this year, but some standards are more attainable than others.
Sam Miller If Yelich truly has transformed himself, he'll blow past even that, and all indications are he has.
Before last year's All-Star break, he was a hitter who tended to hit the ball to the opposite field and who tended to hit the ball on the ground or on a line.
Since then, he has increased his fly ball rate from 12 percent to 24 percent.
Most hitters tend to pull ground balls but hit fly balls the other way; Yelich has managed to increase his pull rate at the same time he has increased his fly ball rate, from 38 percent pre-2018 All Star break to 43 percent since.
And almost every fly ball he pulls is hit hard and far.
Before last year's midway point, he had slugged .935 on flies.
Since then, he has slugged 2.136.
He has pulled four fly balls this year, and they've all been home runs.
Before last summer, he had never had an OPS over 1.000 in a month.
April is all but certain to be his fourth consecutive month over 1.000.
Was there a single swing, a single day, when Yelich became a probable Hall of Famer?
Probably not.
Maybe it was that swing in the All-Star Game that launched this torrid streak.
Maybe it was the seven-hit series he had against the Dodgers coming out of the break, which set the tone for a historic second half.
Maybe it was the two-day stretch he had against the Reds in August: two homers one day, six hits the next.
Maybe it was September, to that point the best month of his career, when he hit .370/.508/.804 to clinch the MVP award.
Maybe Game 1 of the NL Division Series, when he homered to break a scoreless tie and then, in extra innings, walked and scored the winning run.
Maybe it's this month, when he's as hot as you've ever seen a player and the league is finally giving up and starting to just walk him.
But if you can't tell your grandkids about one game, you'll surely be able to recount this four-month stretch, when we've all started watching every Yelich at-bat.
We've realized that until 400 plate appearances ago, we didn't know Yelich at all.
How grateful we should be that now we do.
Dan Orlovsky says Kyler Murray is a special player and any team that passes on him would regret it.
(1:02) TEMPE, Ariz. -- Kliff Kingsbury was already hot on Kyler Murray's recruitment when he walked into an indoor football facility in suburban Dallas to meet with Murray during his junior season of high school.
He walked over to Murray and Ryan Hoogerwerf, Murray's senior backup, while they were warming up together.
Hoogerwerf gave a slight wave.
Kingsbury waved back.
Then Kingsbury and Murray started talking like they had known each other forever.
It felt to Hoogerwerf like the two had been in "cahoots for a while."
"It was like they were old family friends," Hoogerwerf told ESPN.
Kingsbury began recruiting Murray in 2012, when Murray was a sophomore at Allen High and Kingsbury the offensive coordinator at Texas A&M.
Now, the new Arizona Cardinals coach is looking at Murray again, though this time he's eyeing him as the No.
1 pick in this week's NFL draft.
Kingsbury continued to recruit Murray in 2013 after becoming the head coach at Texas Tech -- as did every other major program in America.
But something between Murray and Kingsbury clicked.
They found a bond.
That wasn't easy to do, said Murray's high school coach, Tom Westerberg, because Murray didn't trust many people.
Kingsbury and Murray struck up a relationship that, through the long recruitment process, grew stronger.
Even after Murray signed with the Aggies and didn't follow Kingsbury to Texas Tech, their relationship continued.
"I had a great relationship with him," Murray said at this year's NFL combine, perking up as he started talking about Kingsbury.
"He's always been very fond of me and I respect that.
I've always never taken that for granted.
He's always someone I can go to if I ever need anything."
Besides both being from Texas, both being quarterbacks and both having their fathers heavily involved in their football careers, Kingsbury and Murray found common ground in their personalities.
Both are quite intelligent, relatively quiet, don't like the spotlight and share a similar air of confidence.
"Both cool guys," said Marcus White, who was an offensive analyst at Texas Tech in 2013.
"I can see that conversation going on a long time with those two."
But Hoogerwerf saw one more thing the two had in common: their football minds.
"I think the biggest thing for [Kyler] and Kliff was the more modern coaching style of Kliff Kingsbury," Hoogerwerf said.
"I think Kyler has a very modernized football mind.
He plays the game how the game is being played currently and Kliff coaches that way.
"I think that just resonated with him a lot.
I can't really pinpoint one specific thing that led to it.
I just know that there was some sort of -- not even hidden -- respect level or admiration for Kliff that Kyler had."
Kliff Kingsbury and Kyler Murray shared a few words following Oklahoma's victory over Texas Tech last November.
AP Photo/Brad Tollefson The feeling was mutual.
"I've known his father [Kevin] for a long time and have always kind of seen how he did things [with] Kyler, how he coached the game, how he played the game," Kingsbury said.
"As a quarterback myself, I've always had an appreciation for how he plays the game, how he coaches the game."
When Kingsbury and Kyler Murray talked, it was effortless.
The ease with which Kingsbury and Murray interacted still stands out to Hoogerwerf, who got the sense that Murray and Kingsbury hit it off quickly.
Murray referred to Kingsbury as "my guy Klifford."
He also talked about Kingsbury "all the time" in high school -- about his coaching style, his leadership style, his character and his charisma.
Hoogerwerf, who played baseball at the University of Portland, said he hasn't seen a player-coach relationship "as free and as loose" as that between Murray and Kingsbury.
"Being able to respect the coach that knows what he's doing that much, as much as Kyler did, but also being able to talk to him like he's kind of one of your boys, it was just a cool dynamic to see, especially at such a young age when we're in high school," Hoogerwerf said.
Draft Academy Draft Academy documents the journey of six prospects: Nick Bosa, Marquise Brown, Drew Lock, Tyree Jackson, Jarrett Stidham and Josh Jacobs.
Watch on ESPN+ But that didn't mean it would lead Murray to Lubbock.
When Kingsbury was hired by Texas Tech, he made landing Murray his goal.
"I remember him being, for a lack of a better term -- well, I won't say infatuated -- but we all have that guy that we see up and coming, that we kind of, 'OK, that guy can really change a program,' or, 'That guy can really make this team go,'" White said.
That guy for Kingsbury was Murray.
White quickly pointed out, however, that Kingsbury is "a poker player, too."
He didn't fawn over Murray -- but "really liked the kid," White said.
When the Texas Tech coaches went over the stats every week from Friday night's high school games, Kingsbury made sure to point out Murray's numbers, White said.
At the NFL owner meetings in late March, Kingsbury said he felt Murray "understood" what Texas Tech was doing offensively with its quarterbacks.
"He knew what he could be in that system," Kingsbury said.
Kingsbury continued to make trips to Murray's high school until Murray committed to Texas A&M -- without Kingsbury on staff.
Texas Tech also brought Murray to campus "several times," said Mike Jinks, a Kingsbury assistant from 2013-15.
The Red Raiders' staff thought it had a chance -- a good chance -- at landing Murray.
"There was great interest," Jinks said.
"I think mutual interest with us.
I really, really thought we were going to get him, to be honest with you."
However, Westerberg didn't think Texas Tech "was ever a part of it."
By the time Murray was narrowing his decision, Texas Tech was among the last five standing, a testament, Westerberg said, to Murray's relationship with Kingsbury.
But Murray was the one that got away from Kingsbury, and that could change this week.
On Thursday, when the first round of the NFL draft begins with the Cardinals on the clock, Kingsbury has a chance to rewrite history and get the quarterback he's always wanted.
"I don't want to use the term 'destined,' but it's almost in that respect," White said.
"With the comments that Kliff made about if he had the No.
1 overall pick -- 'He's taking Kyler' -- you couldn't even see this.
"The Cards had to come in last place, Kyler had to be the Heisman Trophy guy this year and Kliff had to get the job and now, all of a sudden, it's like, 'Holy crap, he eluded me in high school and now it's all on me right now.
That was your decision and now this is my decision.'"
The New York Giants need a young quarterback, and a young quarterback named Dwayne Haskins needs them.
Haskins is a Jersey-born kid who grew up dreaming of playing in the old wind tunnel that was Giants Stadium.
He still wants to play for Eli Manning's team, for Plaxico Burress' team, for Tiki Barber's team.
His old man wants him to play for Phil Simms' team, too.
"I know if Dwayne is chosen to play for the Giants," Dwayne Sr. said last week, "he'd be an ambassador.
... With his persona and professionalism, I do see him one day playing for the Giants.
He reminds me so much of Phil Simms with his leadership, determination, poise, and with his great decisions."
But this isn't about what a family of longtime Giants fans wants.
Haskins would make all the sense in the world as the sixth overall pick in Thursday night's NFL draft, even if he had been born in Dallas and raised to adore the Cowboys.
As a one-year starter at Ohio State who went 13-1 last season, Haskins completed 70 percent of his passes and threw for a Big Ten-record 4,831 yards and 50 touchdowns, or eight more touchdowns than the combined total Tom Brady and Drew Brees threw for in their final Big Ten seasons.
At 6-foot-3, 231 pounds, Haskins is a big pocket passer with an explosive arm who lives in the film room and who has an advanced pre-snap ability to read defenses and adjust protection.
He comes from an extended family of police officers and pastors, and from a home governed by a mother, Tamara, a financial adviser, and father, an entrepreneur promoting Christian and gospel music, who stressed religion, education and discipline.
After a family move to the Washington, D.C., area inspired by a search for the highest level of competition, Haskins did not ultimately select a high school based on its football program; he picked Bullis School in Potomac, Maryland, so he could eventually spend one year on the same campus with his sister Tamia, an aspiring actress who was drawn to the school's theater program.
On so many levels, Haskins is a Giants quarterback out of central casting.
Dwayne Haskins would be the first Big Ten QB drafted in the first round since Kerry Collins in 1995.
Quinn Harris/Icon Sportswire "Once you decide to be the quarterback at Ohio State," said new Buckeyes coach Ryan Day, "you're signing up to be the shortstop of the New York Yankees.
"You're expected to be in the Heisman race.
Dwayne took it all in stride and it never went to his head.
He has a really good disposition, and in a market like New York he'd be fine.
...
He's a grounded young man.
He's been raised the right way.
His foundation is solid.
I don't think a couple of bad articles or a couple of losses or getting booed by the crowd will affect him like it would others.
I think he'd do great there."
It's fitting that Day compares Haskins' job to the one once held down by Derek Jeter, another Jersey-born kid who dreamed of playing for the iconic New York team in his chosen sport.
Like Haskins, Jeter's best friend was his younger sister and only sibling, whose interests and ambitions were never treated by anyone in the home as a secondary concern.
Like Haskins, Jeter's parents insisted on completed homework, consistently high grades, and a commitment to a code of conduct and honor that took priority over sports.
Like Haskins, Jeter entered his draft (1992) hoping, even praying, that he would be selected by a struggling New York franchise holding the sixth overall pick.
"Dwayne's ceiling is as high as I've been around.
I still think he's just scratching the surface."
Ohio State's Ryan Day, who coached Haskins for three years.
Of course, none of this means Haskins is destined to have Jeter's first-ballot Hall of Fame career.
But since Giants general manager Dave Gettleman said of potential franchise quarterbacks, "You really have to vet out the background of these guys," that vetting should enhance Haskins' cause.
The quarterback's team-centric views on life, family and football suggest he is an ideal replacement for the 38-year-old Manning, who said he modeled his approach after, you guessed it, Derek Jeter.
"I feel like it would be a perfect marriage," Dwayne Jr. said of a potential partnership with the Giants, who are committed to Manning for one more season.
Haskins wouldn't mind sitting and learning behind Manning, who sat and learned some behind Kurt Warner in 2004.
Everyone employed by the Giants, including Manning, understands the urgent need to get Eli's successor in the building.
Assuming Kyler Murray goes to Arizona at No.
1, and Oakland goes defense at No.
4, Haskins will be the best available quarterback at No.
6.
No, this isn't a unanimous opinion around the league, or even inside the Giants' facility.
Haskins is said to have dropped on some teams' draft boards over concerns about his mobility and athleticism, and to have possibly fallen below Duke's Daniel Jones on Gettleman's board.
The Giants like a lot about Haskins, but, according to a league source, they have some concerns about his feet and body type.
It should be remembered that Manning managed to become a two-time Super Bowl MVP without great feet or a great body type.
play 1:06 McShay: Haskins is the most natural passer in the draft Todd McShay breaks down why Dwayne Haskins has all the tools to be a top-10 pick in the 2019 NFL draft.
Shawn Springs, the retired 13-year NFL veteran and longtime Haskins family friend and mentor, first saw Dwayne Jr. as a seventh-grader throwing 50-yard passes in a New Jersey football camp.
Springs was amazed at his arm strength and accuracy, and he correctly predicted that Haskins would someday grow into a Heisman Trophy finalist.
Now the founder and CEO of Windpact, an impact technology company, Springs started telling people before Haskins enrolled at Ohio State that Warren Moon and Tom Brady were the only quarterbacks he ever played with who were better than Dwayne Jr. "Tom Brady is one of those guys who's a machine in how he's always trying to understand the other team," said Springs, who played with the Patriots in 2009.
"Dwayne is that type of machine when it comes to understanding the game."
Haskins' coach at Bullis, Pat Cilento, echoed that sentiment, saying Haskins' considerable intellect earned him the right to have full control of the offense; Cilento had not handed that kind of authority to previous quarterbacks.
But as much as Haskins impressed with his playcalling, Cilento was struck most by his quarterback's style of leadership on and off the field.
"When a lot of kids were going out at night," Cilento said, "he'd go bowling.
... And he would always include everybody wherever he'd go, on the football field or at one of Tamia's shows.
He would want to throw to 10 different receivers, and if a kid was sitting by himself in the cafeteria, he'd go over and sit with him.
I think his family has done an unbelievable job of raising him."
Haskins' talent was as obvious as his character.
Urban Meyer called his recruit as good a quarterback and fundamental passer as he'd ever seen at that age.
Wearing No.
7, Haskins would come off the bench in 2017 -- after an injury to starter J.T.
Barrett -- and lead the Buckeyes to a come-from-behind victory over Michigan in Ann Arbor, before shredding the Wolverines with six touchdown passes a year later in a blowout victory in Columbus.
A couple of days after that Michigan game, Gerry DiNardo, a Big Ten Network analyst who coached college football for the better part of three decades, sat with Haskins for more than an hour for a film review.
The quarterback did not know in advance what plays would be reviewed or what questions would be asked, and DiNardo said he came away from the session thinking Haskins' grasp of pass-protection concepts was "extraordinary."
The analyst also cited Haskins' desire to avoid being sacked even once because he wanted to help his offensive line pitch a shutout against a defensive coordinator as widely respected as Michigan's Don Brown.
"I thought that was the unselfish part of his personality," DiNardo said, "and I don't think he was just saying that.
... One thing I learned in an hour with Dwayne is, intellectually, he knows the game and he can teach the game.
I've interviewed coaches in the past and after five minutes I knew I wasn't going to hire them because they took too long to explain a formation, or they weren't comfortable in their own skin in what they were teaching.
Dwayne explains things very quickly.
He knows what he's talking about."
Dwayne Haskins set Big Ten single-season records in passing yards (4,831), touchdown passes (50) and total offensive yards (4,939).
AP Photo/Darron Cummings Day spent two NFL seasons under Chip Kelly with the Eagles (where he worked with current Giants coach Pat Shurmur) and the 49ers, and he said Haskins' personality, intelligence and low-maintenance lifestyle will earn him near-instant credibility in an NFL locker room.
Haskins also has upside on his side; he has started only 14 games.
"I was lucky enough to be around Matt Ryan at this age," said Day, a former Boston College assistant, "and to be around a natural talent like Sam Bradford and others.
And Dwayne's ceiling is as high as I've been around.
I still think he's just scratching the surface."
Day thought Haskins came of age in Ohio State's 52-51 overtime victory over Maryland, made possible by the quarterback's decision to keep the ball, lower his shoulder, and barrel into the end zone for his third touchdown run -- answering questions about his ability to will his team to victory and to hurt opponents with his feet, when necessary.
So will the Giants take a prospect who was seemingly born to play for them?
They need to understand that it might be a while before they draft this early again in the first round and that, let's face it, Manning is running on fumes.
The Giants sent a big contingent to Haskins' pro day to study him and dine with him, and they hosted him at their facilities last week.
"It felt like I'd been there my whole life," Haskins told ESPN afterward.
play 0:42 Kiper: Giants will draft Manning's successor Mel Kiper Jr. predicts the Giants will select their quarterback of the future in this year's NFL draft, mentioning Daniel Jones as a possibility.
Though many draft analysts expect the Giants to pass on the quarterback at No.
6 and address their many needs on defense, Haskins said he got a good vibe from management and that he believes the Giants remain "a very strong possibility" for him.
Last week, while insisting he wouldn't force the drafting of a quarterback, Gettleman called playing that position in New York "a load.
It is a mental load.
... You have to have a mental toughness about you to play the position here in New York."
Haskins has that box, and every other relevant box, checked off.
He is a journalism major who is clearly confident in his ability to manage a long-term relationship with the New York media.
Oh yeah, and he threw only eight interceptions against those 50 touchdown passes last season (Duke's Jones and Missouri's Drew Lock combined for 50), finishing with a passer rating of 174.1 and a Total QBR of 84.8.
Draft Academy Draft Academy documents the journey of six prospects: Nick Bosa, Marquise Brown, Drew Lock, Tyree Jackson, Jarrett Stidham and Josh Jacobs.
Watch on ESPN+ "I feel I've been the best quarterback in this draft for a while," Haskins said.
He also tweeted out a message for any executives or scouts who think he might be a bit heavy and lead-footed to grow into a Super Bowl-winning quarterback.
"Don't overthink it," the message said.
"Trust me."
The Giants should trust him, and make a loyal fan's dream come true.
Dwayne Haskins Jr. is the right man to succeed Eli Manning.
Thursday night, Ohio State's No.
7 should be claimed by New York's No.
6.
The NFL Live crew breaks down Eli Manning and whether the Giants should be trying to find his replacement soon.
(1:02) EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -- The New York Giants are rich in terms of draft capital.
They have the goods in the first round of the NFL draft with the No.
6 and No.
17 overall picks.
Which direction will they go?
Let's try to dissect it all with an exercise that has been an annual routine.
Last year, I (kind of) got back on track after a few drafts being off the trail.
This year, it's doubly as difficult with two first-round picks, the second coming from the trade of star wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr.
The first should be the easier of the two.
General manager Dave Gettleman insists he's going to take the best available player, and that if you stretch for need -- even at quarterback -- it leads to a mistake.
No need to doubt him on that one after last year.
Devin White could become the first linebacker drafted in the first round by the Giants since Carl Banks in 1984.
David Rosenblum/Icon Sportswire This isn't considered a great draft at quarterback.
It is an especially strong defensive draft at the top.
That aligns well with the Giants' needs.
"I said it at the postseason presser and I will say it again, we need some defensive playmakers," Gettleman said Thursday.
There are some defensive studs at the top of the Giants' draft board.
They have no doubt they should be able to get one with the sixth pick.
"A chance that they are all gone?
No," Gettleman said.
And with that, there appear to be significant hints at where this one is headed.
It's not with a quarterback being the most likely pick at No.
6.
Here goes nothing.
My best guesstimate of the top players for the Giants' picks: Pick No.
6 play 0:47 Devin White could lead a defense for the next decade Former LSU linebacker Devin White made a name for himself as a tackling machine in college.
Now he eyes the first round of the NFL draft.
(Note: Edge rushers Nick Bosa and Josh Allen and defensive lineman Quinnen Williams are being eliminated from contention.
It seems highly unlikely they reach the Giants.)
1.
Linebacker Devin White (LSU): All the Giants need is one team in the top five to go off the grid, and then they can grab from what is believed to be the truly elite group consisting of Bosa, Allen, Williams and White.
The Raiders might do them that favor by taking defensive lineman Ed Oliver.
Or someone else might get crazy.
Being that the draft never goes as predicted, the Giants' chances of landing White appear realistically high.
And he has it all -- instincts, power, speed, ability to cover.
"Will anchor your defense," an AFC coach said.
White can be one of those lead dogs whom Gettleman likes to have at every level of his defense.
"Best I've seen in a long time," a scout added.
He would be the first linebacker drafted in the first round by the Giants since Carl Banks was the third overall selection in 1984.
2019 NFL DRAFT When: Thursday-Saturday Where: Nashville, Tennessee How to watch: ABC/ESPN/ESPN App McShay's draft buzz: What he's hearing Kiper vs. McShay three-round mock Complete draft order: Picks 1-254 In-depth stories on the top prospects Picking best NFL fits for the top QBs More NFL draft coverage 2.
Defensive lineman Ed Oliver (Houston): The Giants will need to dip into that next block of players if everything goes as predicted.
Oliver should be at the top of that list, even if he's not Aaron Donald, his most common comparison because of his size (6-foot-2, 287 pounds).
Oliver doesn't quite have the same pass-rush ability and isn't as good with his hands.
But the Giants are high on him.
His quickness getting upfield would fit James Bettcher's shoot-the-gaps defense.
"Some unbelievable talents," one source who scouted Oliver said.
"Plays really hard," added another, downplaying some of the concerns after a somewhat disappointing season.
Oliver would provide the Giants with a much-needed disruptive force inside.
3.
Defensive lineman Christian Wilkins (Clemson): At 6-3, 315 pounds, he is a more prototypical fit for Gettleman and the Giants.
One scout considered him similar to Williams, just not quite as dynamic.
Wilkins is strong, powerful and athletic with the production to match the physical skills.
He had 15 tackles for a loss and 6.0 sacks as a senior.
He won't be there if the Giants try to wait at No.
17.
4.
Offensive lineman Jonah Williams (Alabama): If the perceived elite group of defenders is gone by No.
6, it's possible the Giants could pivot to whoever it is atop their offensive line rankings.
It's a toss-up between Williams and Andre Dillard, but I'm leaning Williams here because he's the safest, cleanest bet.
Dillard has more upside, and Williams' work ethic and attitude are exactly what Gettleman desires, and would be ideal to fit the culture he's been preaching that is mandatory for success.
5.
Defensive lineman Rashan Gary (Michigan): The New Jersey product's talent is too immense to discount under the right circumstance.
He ran the 40-yard dash in 4.58 seconds at the NFL combine at 277 pounds.
He can rush from the interior or off the edge and plays with power and explosion.
The only reason Gary isn't higher on this list is because his production didn't match the talent at Michigan and he can sometimes emit "bad energy," according to multiple sources who watched tape and spoke with him.
It's not enough to put Gary out of contention for No.
6 like the medical and background checks likely will do for Mississippi State's Montez Sweat, but it's worth keeping in mind.
Just missed: Dillard, Clelin Ferrell Pick No.
17 play 1:05 QB Drew Lock aiming to be top-10 pick Kyler Murray and Dwayne Haskins have grabbed a lot of headlines leading into the NFL draft.
But don't overlook Missouri's Drew Lock.
1.
Quarterback Drew Lock (Missouri): He's believed to be at or near the top of the Giants' quarterback list because of the way he throws and his ability to move.
Lock "can be special," a coach who studied the quarterback said.
The question is whether they can wait for pick No.
17 or will need to move up.
The latter is a realistic possibility given the Giants are flush with picks (12, tied for the most of any team).
Some believe Lock is and can be the best quarterback in this class.
The knock is his inconsistency and pocket poise, but some are willing to shrug that off given that he was often trying to make plays to keep an overmatched Missouri in games in the SEC.
It did help that he was making NFL throws in the Tigers' offense last year.
Lock would make sense for the Giants given his high upside and that he can sit for a year and learn under Manning.
2.
Quarterback Daniel Jones (Duke): The Giants are known to like Jones.
The question is how much given the lack of elite physical traits.
"Pedestrian talent," one non-Giants scout said.
His accuracy (especially on deep balls) is also an issue for some.
But Jones has that mental toughness that Gettleman desires and is well-schooled under respected Duke coach David Cutcliffe, who also coached Eli and Peyton Manning in college.
That Manning connection and the Eli stamp of approval certainly couldn't have hurt during the evaluation process.
"Good decision-maker," one quarterbacks coach added.
He later added that Jones has a "fairly high ceiling" but not nearly at the level of Lock.
If Lock is already taken prior to the Giants pick at No.
17 and Jones is on the board, expect him to be the selection and their future franchise quarterback.
If they're both there, flip a coin.
3.
Defensive lineman Clelin Ferrell (Clemson): Just a good football player.
Teams seem to like Ferrell better than most mock drafts and rankings.
He's a producer, finishing with 19.5 tackles for a loss and 11.5 sacks his junior season before entering the NFL draft.
"One of the best players [in the draft]," said one scout who liked Ferrell better than Oliver and Gary.
Ferrell's the kind of polished product that the Giants would seemingly favor, with his long arms and impressive hand usage among his most attractive traits.
4.
Outside linebacker Brian Burns (Florida State): The Giants need a pass-rusher.
Burns has the speed and ability off the edge that they so desperately desire, and he comes with the kind of upside to become a star in the league.
Burns had 10.0 sacks last season for the Seminoles.
He's on the small side, but the belief is he plays with enough strength to develop into a serviceable player against the run.
That puts him seriously in the conversation at No.
17.
5.
Defensive lineman Dexter Lawrence (Clemson): Just like Jones and Lock are a coin flip, so are Lawrence and Ferrell.
Lawrence is a mountain of a man and moves relatively well.
Teams don't seem overly concerned about his lack of production as a pass-rusher this past season (1.5 sacks) and a failed test that kept him out of the BCS National Championship.
Lawrence is still expected to be a mid-to-late first-round pick.
It could be to the Giants.
Just missed: LB Devin Bush, OL Cody Ford
Jeopardy!
contestant and professional sports better James Holzhauer joins SVP to break down his success on the show.
(1:55) James Holzhauer is destroying "Jeopardy!"
He did it again Monday, bagging $90,812 and ranking second on the show's all-time winnings list with $942,738 total.
Remember, Holzhauer had crushed the one-day record when he won $110,914.
Then he topped his own record on Wednesday with a $131,127 finish.
The previous record was $77,000.
Why does ESPN care?
Because Holzhauer is a respected professional sports bettor, a former math major who took his chops to Las Vegas.
Alex Trebek is impressed, and so are we.
We'll track this 'til the end.
Jump to: The Latest News | The Money | Social Reaction | Video THE LATEST SHOW ESPN Staff Writer Las Vegas sports bettor James Holzhauer won $90,912 during the episode of Jeopardy!
that aired Monday, his 13th straight win on the show.
Holzhauer went into Final Jeopardy leading by more than $47,000.
He risked $38,686 and correctly responded to In a poem Lord Byron, a lover of Greece, calls this diplomat and fellow lord a plunderer with Who is Elgin.
The $90,912 winning amount is the fourth-highest one-day total in the shows 35-year history.
Holzhauer now owns the six highest one-day totals.
THE MONEY Total won: $942,738 Average per win: $72,518 By the numbers Stats courtesy of thejeopardyfan.com: Through 13 appearances, Holzhauer ranks second on the show's all-time regular-play winnings list with $942,738.
In those 13 shows, Holzhauer has 455 correct and 17 incorrect responses.
On the episode that aired April 9, the third day of Holzhauer's run, he won $110,914, the most on a single day in the show's 35-year history.
According to thejeopardyfan.com, a site dedicated to the show and respected by "Jeopardy!"
enthusiasts, only four contestants -- Ken Jennings, Matt Jackson, Roger Craig and Austin Rogers -- have earned more than $100,000 on Daily Doubles during their appearances.
In his first five days, Holzhauer earned $218,199 on Daily Doubles.
SOCIAL REACTIONS This guy is going for Ken Jennings' "Jeopardy!"
record https://t.co/wFkOrhfwTW pic.twitter.com/pQWBZhPf3W ESPN (@espn) April 18, 2019 i get to jeopardy nine minutes in and the cyborg has $6,600.
Bomani Jones (@bomani_jones) April 17, 2019 of course this cyborg on jeopardy is a sports gambler.
Bomani Jones (@bomani_jones) April 10, 2019 ICYMI: There's a new single-game winnings king.
Congrats, James Holzhauer!
Watch the full story here: https://t.co/wxLDYko11H pic.twitter.com/bKfzxjkbx4 Jeopardy!
(@Jeopardy) April 10, 2019 VIDEO
Stephen A. Smith says now that Tiger Woods has his 15th major championship, he will catch Jack Nicklaus for the most major wins in golf history.
(1:11) When Tiger Woods raised his arms in victory Sunday at the Masters, he knew the financial gain he would take in personally.
The winner's share increased to $2.07 million, up from $1.98 million in 2018, a number that was easily quantifiable.
Sportsbooks across the country also knew the financial impact the incredible win would have on them.
Benzinga.com reported that sportsbook William Hill saw its biggest golf loss ever with a bettor winning $1.19 million on an $85,000 bet.
Bloomberg reported that Westgate SuperBook lost $100,000 on a bet and FanDuel Sportsbook paid out $3 million from the tournament.
However, as it has been with any Woods win in the past, the financial impact goes beyond himself and gambling to his title sponsors, the tournaments he plays in and the brands involved with those tournaments.
Quantifying that is not as easily determined, especially as it comes in one of the most notable wins in recent years.
But some of those brands are already starting to see a boost from Woods' historic comeback and Masters win, and it starts with how many people watched his victory.
According to CBS, the final-round coverage and encore presentation was seen by 37.2 million viewers, a 41 percent increase from 2018's live-only coverage.
Those broadcast numbers, combined with reach on social media, can help brands and sponsors associated with the Masters start to figure out a value associated with this specific win.
Brian Kim is the general manager at GumGum Sports, a company that works with brands and companies to quantify that exact value through use of computer vision technology.
The company is able to measure ad equivalency by determining how long brands are showing up in footage clips across television and a large ecosystem on social media and equating that number to actual dollars.
Attention isn't just on Tiger in the wake of his Masters' win.
The impact is on everything, including what's in his bag.
Mike Ehrmann/Getty Images Although GumGum hasn't yet analyzed this year's Masters numbers for its brands, Kim said the early numbers are staggering.
He estimates the effect of Tiger winning to be north of $550 million at the bare minimum, a $100 million increase over last year's victory by Patrick Reed, which was tracked by GumGum in 2018.
A data point Kim mentions as evidence of the increase in value is a small sample size that reveals what has happened across the board by looking at two tweets from the Masters' official Twitter account.
The Masters tweets out video of the final putt from the champion each year.
Reed's winning putt from 2018 has been viewed 393,000 times.
The same video of Woods this year, as of Monday morning, has been viewed 7.85 million times.
"That's the social effect of Tiger winning, and that type of effect, one, shows the power of social media," Kim said.
"And that they [people] will continually view it and tune in, and that becomes a lasting effect back to brands on the value that they're actually getting in return."
In that particular tweet, Woods is seen rolling in his Bridgestone Tour B XS golf ball, one of his title sponsors who has also gained from the wave of excitement brought on by Tiger's win.
The company doesn't yet know whether its exposure in the Masters and with Woods will translate to long-term sales, but it is anticipating increases based on the consumer interest displayed already.
"We're seeing, across the board, interest in stocking up on Tiger Woods' golf ball," Bridgestone president Dan Murphy said.
"So we're pretty excited to see the order bank starting to increase.
I'd say for the specific models that [Woods] plays, we're looking at 20 to 30 percent we can bump up the sales on that product.
"Who knows, time will tell if that's optimistic or pessimistic, no one's ever done this before."
After the Masters, Bridgestone saw a 209 percent increase in engagement on Twitter, a 400 percent increase on Facebook and a 205 percent increase in website traffic as compared to last year's Masters week.
That news saw Murphy standing on a desk at the company's headquarters in Covington, Georgia, yelling, "We love Tiger Woods."
A display that was caught on camera and tweeted out on Bridgestone's official account.
The company has even switched production lines to produce more of Woods' model ball in anticipation of increased demand.
Consumers can now purchase the same model Woods uses in tournament play, with "TIGER" stamped on the side of each ball.
That ball, the Tour B XS, will be made available to consumers later this week and has already sold out to the retailers who purchase directly from Bridgestone.
The package the dozen balls is housed in will feature a commemorative wrap showing Woods with his fists in the air from his Masters win.
Bridgestone isn't the only sponsor seeing an increase in projected sales and social engagement, either.
TaylorMade, the company that produces Woods' clubs, saw its website traffic double immediately after the win and has seen more than five times the normal engagement on social media the company sees during a post-victory weekend.
According to TaylorMade CEO David Abeles, the company sold more of the P7TW irons (Woods' collaboration with TaylorMade) in the first seven hours following Tiger's win than the first seven days following its presale launch on April 8, the Monday before the Masters.
That set, according to Abeles, is now in a temporary sold-out state, and TaylorMade has had to reforecast sales and production for the iron set to meet the demand for the clubs.
"The feedback coming in after the win are, whether you're going to play the iron or you want to collect the iron, the demand is increasing exponentially on a day-to-day basis," Abeles said.
"So there's an incredible novelty around this iron because of the moment in time that it happened this past Sunday.
Many consumers are looking at this not only to play, but to have a set because they will always remember where they were when Tiger won his 15th major and his fifth green jacket."
That novelty and collectable aspect is in part because consumers can purchase the iron set exactly to Tiger Woods' specs and own the exact irons Woods uses in tournament play, delivered in a decorative red and black box, triggering thoughts of Woods' Sunday red shirt and black pants.
Allowing consumers to know Woods' exact specifications on his signature set of clubs, and then purchase the clubs is a first for Woods and TaylorMade, and has helped drive demand for the product since the win.
"We certainly see a lift when Tiger plays well and we're excited about that," Abeles said.
"I think over the course of the next 90 days, as we work through major championship season, as he continues to play well, no better way to start the golf season with him winning.
And if he continues to win, which we believe that he has a very good chance to continue to win, as do our other players, we'll continue to see the momentum build for our brand."
Although Kim has not evaluated the exact numbers, he was comfortable saying that, of the $550 million he estimated was generated in value for brands, Nike would represent 20 to 25 percent of that figure.
That being said, the number itself could be priceless for the brand.
"This is kind of like the Colin Kaepernick or Serena Williams moment again for them, that it's just them being part of a journey.
Whether that's worth $50 million or $100 million, the number to them doesn't matter, it just matters that they're part of this sports journey and their brand is associated to this moment actually happening.
"I don't even think their marketing team and sponsorship team will care about it.
Because it's about that lifetime value they're generating being associated with this."
Nike might not care, but there has already been an impact from the tournament.
Woods brought back his iconic mock turtleneck for this year's Masters, and that version of the Nike Dri-Fit TW Vapor mock turtleneck is sold out on Nike.com in all colors but black, which is available only in small.
That shirt received quite a bit of attention on the broadcast as Woods had worn the mock turtleneck earlier in his career and was bringing it back once again at the Masters.
Joyce Julius, a company that measures the scope of corporate sponsorships and brand placements, measured the shirt as getting 1 hour, 1 minute and 20 seconds of airtime on the live portion of the broadcast, or 17.4 percent of the entire broadcast length.
Eric Wright, the president and executive director of research at Joyce Julius, believes that number is significant, given how that shirt has become synonymous with Woods.
"There is a huge affinity for that shirt, and there is also a low-grade hatred of that shirt," Wright said.
"But everybody has an opinion on it and everybody is engaged on it, and that's kind of what Woods is, too.
He's got his detractors, his critics, people that openly root against him, and then he's got this massive fan base, too.
"But what you have is engagement.
...
If you're a sports marketer, you want people talking about your person that you've chose to endorse your product, and that increases the volume and amount of conversation."
Wright notes that there are typically three lightning rods for engagement spikes: Tom Brady, LeBron James and Woods.
From an exposure standpoint, Wright says it is simply amazing to see the Woods factor rise to levels of when Woods was is in his prime, and potentially even higher if he can continue the success in future tournaments.
And those tournaments stand to gain from that, as well.
The Wells Fargo Championship, played on April 29 at Quail Hollow Club in Charlotte, North Carolina, has not yet gained a commitment from Woods, according to tournament director Gary Sobba, But the tournament is already anticipating an impact if Woods decides to play in the event.
"We are sold out of one premium inventory, we are sold out for the week and we're sold out for Friday and Saturday, and we did choose to expand one of our premium areas, which we've never done before," Sobba said.
Woods has committed to playing in the PGA Championship, though, and tournament director Scott Reid has already seen an increase in ticket sales for the tour's next major, which is moving from August to May.
It will be played at Bethpage State Park on the Black Course in Farmingdale, New York.
Reid believes the timing -- the PGA Championship now takes place after the Masters -- will certainly give the event a boost and will ride off the momentum of Woods' win at Augusta National.
But the PGA is looking big picture and thinking about the impact this could have on the game of golf in general, more so than the individual tournaments.
The goal of the PGA is to grow the game of golf, and having a figure such as Tiger Woods back in the spotlight is only going to help its chances at bringing in new players and attracting a younger crowd to the game.
"At the end of the day, Tiger helps that in such a big way in bringing people to the game that might not think about golf," Reid said.
"Tiger was the one who started to make golf cool for people, and having him back in that position going forward, I think the PGA as a whole is just excited for the opportunity for us to capitalize on our mission in bringing more people to the game."
It's difficult to predict that long-term impact and whether Woods can again influence the future of golf the way he once did.
But judging by the early returns on the Masters and his performance, it's safe to say the potential is there, and the buzz has people once again talking about Woods as a monster figure in the financial aspect of the business.
"It's great when your guy wins the Masters, that's great," Murphy said.
"But when your guy wins the Masters and it's Tiger Woods in maybe the biggest comeback in sports?
That's unbelievable, and we're super fortunate."
Beckham and the Inter Miami CF group are looking forward to their 2020 grand debut, but there's a lot of work still to be done.
ESPN Illustration BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- The vow almost comes too easily from Jorge Mas.
He's discussing the fact that the team he co-owns, Inter Miami CF, will be spending its first two seasons not in the Magic City but 35 miles up the coast in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
This has been tried before in MLS with the now-defunct Miami Fusion, but will people make the trek from Miami-Dade County to Broward?
Can Inter Miami capture the hearts of a fickle and fragmented sporting public in South Florida?
Mas and the ownership group, which includes soccer legend David Beckham, Simon Fuller -- who created the "American Idol" franchise -- Softbank CEO Masayoshi Son and former Sprint CEO Marcelo Claure, are hoping so.
"You win, people go," Mas says following last week's MLS Board of Governors meeting near Los Angeles.
"We'll win."
When it's pointed out that the Fusion won too, he says, "I know, but it's a little different."
Such is Mas' charisma that the impulse is to believe him, but where do things stand with Inter Miami CF on some key points ahead of their 2020 debut?
Wait, why are they playing in Fort Lauderdale?
"They've got an office in Coral Gables.
That's all they've got," now retired Sun-Sentinel soccer columnist Jeff Rusnak said of Inter Miami.
"They don't have a training facility.
They don't have a stadium.
They're now under a massive time crunch.
This is nuts."
A referendum to build Miami Freedom Park, which will include a 25,000-seat soccer stadium on the site of the Melreese Country Club near Miami International airport, prevailed in November by a comfortable 60-40 margin.
In a city that still feels burned from the Marlins Stadium fiasco, one in which the city ended up paying $536 million of the $640 million cost and then had to sell bonds to pay what was owed, that's no small feat.
Despite the star power of Beckham, the club has encountered more obstacles than a competitor on "American Ninja Warrior" in its quest for a home.
The Melreese Country Club is its fifth attempt to find a suitable site for a stadium.
The deal isn't done, either: Mas and his group still need to negotiate a 99-year lease with the Miami City Commission and obtain approval from four of the five commissioners.
Two commissioners, Manolo Reyes and Willy Gort (in whose district the site is located), are already on record as being against the project.
The venue won't be completed until the 2022 campaign, and Mas struck a deal in Fort Lauderdale to demolish the old Lockhart Stadium, replacing it with a training facility and an 18,000-seat stadium.
Playing in Fort Lauderdale and basing some operations there would have its advantages in terms of location and would provide leverage in any kind of negotiation with the city of Miami over the stadium site, but that also runs the risk of sending mixed messages.
"You branded your team from day one as Miami.
I think you need to play your MLS games in the city you're named after," said Piet Brown, who is a founding member of the fan group the Southern Legion and runs a YouTube channel called Futbol Miami TV.
"I went to all the Miami Fusion games, and it feels like there's a few similarities.
Lockhart's not the reason that the Fusion failed, but being named 'Miami' and playing in Fort Lauderdale sure didn't help."
The timeline to get a redeveloped Lockhart Stadium and training facility up and running by the start of the 2020 season is hugely aggressive.
Yet there is a sense that if anyone can pull this off, Mas and his group can.
"Mas is sort of like the big brother saying everything is going to be OK," said Dr. Jim Riordan, the director of the MBA in sport management program at Florida Atlantic University.
Inter Miami has certainly been laying the groundwork to get the lease for the Melreese site negotiated.
Mas said Inter Miami had held 10 meetings in the past month and has "touched and spoken to around 1,000 people" in those gatherings.
Mas anticipates being able to bring the lease before the City Commission in the next month.
As for the votes, Mas is confident that he'll prevail on that front as well.
"It's too compelling," he said of the Melreese project.
"The community is clamoring for it, and the community has said yes."
Does Inter Miami CF have a staff yet?
Skeptical observers such as Rusnak, who have heard every promise and every lie about the viability of professional soccer in South Florida over the years, feel cautiously optimistic about Mas' ability to deliver.
"Mas is a force of nature.
If he's wrong and he's a forceful personality, it will go down the drain like all the others," Rusnak said.
"But he's proven to be open and savvy."
That is especially the case in terms of the organization currently being built by Mas and Beckham.
Jurgen Mainka was hired as the chief business officer after a stint with CONCACAF.
Paul McDonough was spirited away from reigning MLS champions Atlanta United to be the sporting director; he brought in former Orlando City GM Niki Budalic and former LA Galaxy player personnel director Kurt Schmid to help put the roster together.
Jason Kreis has been hired to be part of the coaching staff, though his commitment to the U.S. U-23 team will limit his availability over the next year.
Juan Carlos Michia, Victor Pastora and former Real Salt Lake midfielder Javier Morales were brought on as academy coaches.
Mas, left, and Beckham have been extremely involved in the civic work needed to secure Inter Miami's stadium site, as well as working to start building out the coaching staff, executives and squad.
RHONA WISE/AFP/Getty Images The search for the first manager is ongoing, with McDonough expecting the hire to be made in September or October.
Mas and Beckham have been involved in the process, and candidates from inside and outside MLS have been interviewed.
"I'm going to patient with it.
I'm not in a rush," McDonough said of the timeframe for hiring a manager.
"I think it's more about signing the right guy.
I think the hard part was you saw what Tata [Martino] was and what he did in Atlanta and how it worked out.
There have been similar guys who were big names and haven't done well.
"I think it's really more important for us that we find the right person that I can work with and build the club as we move forward."
Who's going to play for this team?
This is the third time McDonough has been charged with building a technical organization and roster ahead of an expansion season.
In Orlando, he had the advantage of an entrenched USL side as a springboard for an MLS team.
In Atlanta, he was starting from scratch.
What's different about Miami is the extent of the diversity in the fan base.
"What I tell them all the time is, 'Look, the Colombians, the Salvadorans, the Haitians, they'll all cheer for a really good player, no matter where he's from because they're all smart soccer fans, and they want good soccer,'" McDonough said.
McDonough will be hoping to replicate in Miami what he did in Atlanta, and given that the academy season starts in August, that is where he has focused his initial efforts.
"I either had to start [the academy] six months early or six months later than the first team," he said.
"And I just think to get the homegrowns and get it all going, it made sense to get the jump start because, look, it doesn't really affect me in year one, but it's going to affect me in year three, so the sooner I can get it going, I can get to year three faster."
Soccer fans in Miami have been excited for league play since the first announcements in 2014.
Yet they'll have to travel out of the city to see the team in its first two seasons.
Susan Stocker/Sun Sentinel/TNS via Getty Images How involved is David Beckham?
Beckham's title is director of soccer operations, but as the face of the organization, his remit is broader than that.
He is involved not only on the technical side but also with partnerships and anything related to merchandise.
He has been making periodic visits to South Florida as well, including twice in the past six weeks.
McDonough confirmed that he and Beckham are setting the direction of the club in terms of style and that the hiring of a coach and the signing of players will be determined based on that style.
Like he did in Atlanta, signing players will happen before a manager is hired, with the first announced before the summer.
Those players will likely be loaned out until the 2020 season.
As for the rumored links with Mexican defender Hector Moreno, McDonough said, "We have not had discussions with Moreno or his representatives."
McDonough was vague as to what the club's style would be, trotting out the standard line of "We'll play attacking soccer."
But given that Miami is often viewed as a gateway to Latin America and McDonough's history with Atlanta, it's not a reach to think the team will have a heavy influence of South American players, though he will also cast a wide net.
Beckham's magnetism doesn't hurt, either.
"I think South American players really translate well here," he said.
"I think the one thing about Miami -- and it's similar to New York and L.A. -- is that it's a global city.
So European players, you pick the phone up, and you call a European player, and you say, 'Hey, you've been playing in England or Germany, and I want to bring you to Miami,' they're going to listen.
Will Inter Miami be forced to change its name?
Complicating Inter Miami's path to the pitch have been some recent issues in court.
FXE Futbol, whose competing bid to renovate Lockhart Stadium was rejected, recently filed suit in Broward County court, alleging that the City of Fort Lauderdale failed to adhere to Florida state law as it relates to unsolicited offers for the development of public land by a private entity by not getting "an architect, landscape architect, or an engineer licensed in this state" to review the proposals.
State law also requires an "independent analysis" to demonstrate the public-private partnership's cost-effectiveness.
"We can no longer stand on the sidelines while our due process is being violated," FXE's managing partner, John F. Reynal, said in a statement posted by the company on Twitter.
As for the trademark dispute, last month MLS filed a notice of opposition to an application Inter Milan made back in 2014 seeking to claim exclusive rights to the term "Inter."
Mas expects that the latest lawsuit won't hamper his plans in Fort Lauderdale, nor is he concerned about the trademark spat with Inter Milan.
As Mas noted dryly, "There's going to be no confusion over Inter Milan and Inter Miami."
Yet there is a haunting sense of dj vu in terms of the move -- however temporary -- to Fort Lauderdale.
"In South Florida, you make judgments about how far will I drive to see something," Rusnak said.
"I'll do anything if it takes me 15 minutes.
If it's an hour, it better be really worth my while.
I think there's a Balkanization a little bit down here, like this invisible line between Dade and Broward County.
We do get into this mentality of it 'being up there' or 'being down there.'
And the density of the traffic keeps getting thicker and thicker, and there's a general frustration down here that driving takes more time than it should."
The reality is that what happens in the courtroom and city hall will be just as important as anything the team does to get ready on the pitch.
It will take every bit of Mas' business acumen and the team-building powers of McDonough & Co. to make Inter Miami a success.
It's Monday, time for another edition of Ariel Helwani's MMA Show, which airs live starting at 1 p.m.
ET on Twitter and YouTube.
Following the show, the entirety can be heard via the ESPN podcast center.
The UFC went to Russia this past weekend for just the second time in the promotion's history.
Alistair Overeem scored the 23rd KO/TKO of his career when he finished Aleksei Oleinik in the first round of the main event.
Veteran Roxanne Modafferi beat Antonina Shevchenko via split decision in a hard-fought affair.
And Islam Makhachev continued to impress, earning his fifth consecutive win.
Those were the main highlights.
Ariel & the Bad Guy The best insider in the sport, Ariel Helwani, and best personality in the sport, Chael Sonnen, break down the MMA weekend and look ahead to the biggest cards.
Watch on ESPN+ This Saturday, former Strikeforce middleweight champion Jacare Souza meets late-replacement Jack Hermansson in the main event of UFC Fight Night in Sunrise, Florida.
The card also includes Greg Hardy, the always-entertaining Mike Perry, hard-hitting Brazilian bantamweight John Lineker versus rising star Cory Sandhagen and former champions Carla Esparza and Andrei Arlovski, among others.
Bellator also has a pretty big show in San Jose, California, featuring two title fights.
As for the Helwani Show, we have another jam-packed episode for you later on Monday.
But in the meantime, here's a few things on my mind coming off the weekend: 1.
Makhachev needs to fight a ranked opponent next.
I don't really care who it is, but it's time.
I want to know how really good Makhachev is.
2.
Every time I think Overeem is winding down, he goes on a run like this.
Good on ya, Reem.
Sign me up for that Alexander Volkov fight again, depending on when Volkov is ready to return.
There has been conflicting info out there as to why he had to withdraw from the fight.
Here's hoping his "health issues" aren't too serious.
3.
Modafferi is what is right about MMA.
I'm thrilled to see one of women's MMA's true pioneers finally thrive in the UFC.
4.
Kyoji Horiguchi defeated Ben Nguyen this weekend at Rizin 15 for his 12th straight win.
The plan is for him to now rematch Darrion Caldwell at Madison Square Garden on June 14.
Though the fight isn't signed, it has been verbally agreed to, according to sources.
It's really fun matchmaking.
If only other promoters could get along the way Scott Coker and Nobuyuki Sakakibara do.
5.
Speaking of MSG, the UFC might be back there sooner than the usual November show.
Stay tuned.
6.
I was skeptical at first, but I'm starting to get the feeling that the road to Khabib Nurmagomedov vs. Dustin Poirier won't be as rocky as I initially thought.
That's all thanks to Nurmagomedov, who will come off as an even bigger star if and when that fight happens in Abu Dhabi.
7.
Conor McGregor competing in an exhibition boxing match at his old boxing club warms my heart.
Is this sign of good things to come and a return to (somewhat) normalcy for the Irishman?
I hope so.
8.
Mike Perry fights this weekend.
That's always fun.
9.
I think Ilima-Lei MacFarlane is one of Bellator's best representatives.
As long as she keeps on fighting, which she does this weekend, and keeps on winning, Coker will push her to the moon.
10.
I'm surprised John Gotti III hasn't signed with a major MMA promotion yet.
Bantamweight Leslie Smith signed earlier this month with Bellator MMA.
Haljestam-USA TODAY Sports 11.
Good on Bellator for not being afraid to sign Leslie Smith, considering her strong stance on unionization.
12.
UFC should listen to Israel Adesanya and not rush him back so soon versus Robert Whittaker.
I believe they will, too.
13.
I don't care how many people were in the field, the fact that CM Punk is still actively competing in martial arts tournaments is all you need to know about the man.
He was never in this for the fame or the money, and I hope he has finally proved that.
14.
I was in Canada this weekend, and I missed ESPN+ (which isn't currently available in Canada).
It's really convenient.
15.
Muhammed Lawal said after his loss at Rizin that this is his last year fighting.
This makes me sad.
Lawal is one of the great characters in the sport's history.
My postfight interview with him after he beat Gegard Mousasi in 2010 to win the Strikeforce light heavyweight title in Nashville, Tennessee, remains one of my favorites.
Look it up on YouTube.
He couldn't walk after the fight so we had to do the interview in his locker room while he laid down on some mats, crying.
I can't help but wonder what his career might have been like had he not suffered so many injuries and setbacks.
16.
Big-time MMA is back in Sunrise, Florida, this weekend.
First time I covered an event there was Oct. 4, 2008, the night Kimbo Slice lost to Seth Petruzelli in one of the more bizarre nights in MMA history.
Sure, EliteXC was a mess at times, but they were really fun to cover.
I particularly miss $kala.
Today's lineup + times UFC welterweight contender Jorge Masvidal is set to face Ben Askren at UFC 239 in July.
Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC/Getty Images 1 p.m. - Alistair Overeem Overeem will talk about his win over Oleynik in Russia this past weekend and what's next for him.
1:15 - Paulo Costa Borrachinha will fill listeners in on who the rising middleweight contender wants next.
1:30 - Chris Weidman I'll talk to Chris about his recent neck surgery and his road back to the Octagon.
1:50 - Deron Winn Winn will preview his UFC debut on June 22 in Greenville, South Carolina.
2:05 - Dustin Poirier What has life been like for Poirier since winning the UFC's interim lightweight title?
We'll also get a status update on his bid to unify the belt with Nurmagomedov in September.
2:25 - Jon Fitch I'll discuss with Fitch his Bellator welterweight title fight this weekend against champion Rory MacDonald.
Colby Covington is expected to face Kamaru Usman for the UFC welterweight belt later in 2019.
Andrew Hancock for ESPN 2:45 - Colby Covington What's the latest on a UFC welterweight title fight with Kamaru Usman?
Covington fills us in.
3:05 - Jorge Masvidal Masvidal will help preview his upcoming fight with fellow UFC welterweight contender Ben Askren at UFC 239 on July 6.
3:25 - Paddy Holohan The former UFC fighter will describe why he chose to retire from MMA, and what life will look like after fighting.
3:45 - Ross Pearson Pearson, who won Season 9 of "The Ultimate Fighter," also chose to retire in April.
He'll discuss that decision and what's next for him.
Following his failure in Monaco, the FC guys discuss what Thierry Henry could offer the New York Red Bulls should he be named head coach.
(1:56) April showers bring May flowers ... and set up wild MLS seasons chock-full of surprising results and consensus-smashing results.
It took a while to get here, but it feels like MLS is finally the league we all know and mostly wring our hands about.
A league that provides more than its fair share of chaos.
A league that tests our patience with a round of results that confounds as much as it clarifies.
Who's good?
Who's bad?
These are our weekly MLS Power Rankings.
Previous rankings: Week 7 | Week 6 | Week 5 | Week 4 | Week 3 | Week 2 | Week 1 1.
LAFC (7 wins, 1 draw, 1 loss) Previous ranking: 1 Next MLS match: Sunday, April 28, at Seattle (3.30 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN and ESPN Deportes) OK, so LAFC lost on the road to Vancouver on Wednesday, but Bob Bradley's club also made a statement against Seattle on Sunday night, busting up the second-best team in the league with a strong performance at Banc of California Stadium.
How good is LAFC?
Good enough to remain the best team in MLS.
See you all next week.
Previous ranking: 2 Next MLS match: Wednesday, April 24, vs. San Jose Earthquakes (10.30 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) There's this: The Sounders were the last unbeaten team in MLS when the whistle blew in L.A. on Sunday night.
That won't make them feel better about the performance, a big loss to LAFC, but there's hope that the season will bend toward Seattle across 34 games.
Good team, bad night.
Previous ranking: 3 Next MLS match: Wednesday, April 24, at Minnesota (8 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) Zlatan Ibrahimovic won himself (another) penalty, Diego Polenta scored his first MLS goal and the Galaxy knocked the Dynamo from the ranks of the unbeaten.
The real show on Friday was the battle between Ibrahimovic and AJ DeLaGarza.
Back in his old stomping grounds, DeLaGarza decided to fight a lion.
He did not win.
Previous ranking: 4 Next MLS match: Saturday, April 27, vs. Columbus Crew (8.30 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) The unbeaten run was always going to end at some point.
Friday's loss wasn't inevitable -- the Dynamo went toe-to-toe with the Galaxy on the road -- but we can't downgrade Houston dramatically because of it.
Wilmer Cabrera's team looks to be the real deal and will be in the mix for the top spot in the West all year.
If it can hold on to Alberth Elis.
Previous ranking: 8 Next MLS match: Saturday, April 27, vs. San Jose (3.30 p.m.
ET) First, the facts: Atlanta is not very good right now and beating it isn't all that unique anymore.
That being said, walking into Mercedes-Benz Stadium and taking down the champions is no small feat for a young side like FC Dallas.
Take note of the goal scorers for the Hoops: 18-year academy product Jesus Ferreira and offseason DP signing Bryan Acosta.
Previous ranking: 5 Next MLS match: Wednesday, April 24, at Columbus Crew (7.30 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) Held against Montreal and then beaten at home by NYCFC -- it was not the best week for United in terms of results.
The strangeness of the schedule keeps United at the top of the table in the East, but there's a teetering feeling about that status for the Black and Red.
This is not a team that can afford for Wayne Rooney and Luciano Acosta to go missing.
Previous ranking: 9 Next MLS match: Saturday, April 27, vs. Portland (3 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) The Reds bounced back from last week's loss in Seattle with a wild win over Minnesota United, but the real drama came after the game.
Jozy Altidore's frustration over another hamstring injury prompted an outburst at team president Bill Manning, not a good look for a club that was the model of harmony not that long ago.
Previous ranking: 6 Next MLS match: Wednesday, April 24, vs. D.C. United (7.30 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) On the whole, the start to life under Caleb Porter hasn't been too bad in Columbus -- the Crew did sit second in the East before the weekend matches, after all.
But the struggle to score goals is becoming a real problem for Porter's team.
Every team is susceptible to poor finishing, but there doesn't seem to be an obvious fix in Ohio.
Previous ranking: 10 Next MLS match: Saturday, April 27, at Vancouver (5 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) Easy stuff for the Union on Saturday against Montreal.
One problem: Andre Blake left the game with a groin injury.
That's trouble for Jim Curtin's team: Blake is a former MLS Goalkeeper of the Year for good reason and consistently keeps his teams in games all by himself.
Previous ranking: 11 Next MLS match: Wednesday, April 24, at LA Galaxy (8 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) The Loons showed energy, fight, grit, passion, joy, skill and any number of other positive traits in a wild loss to Toronto on Friday.
That's the good.
The bad is that Minnesota's defending is still distressingly bad and both Jan Gregus and Francisco Calvo were sent off late in the match.
Neither will be available against LA in midweek.
Previous ranking: 12 Next MLS match: Wednesday, April 24, at New England (7.30 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) The most inconsistent team in the league (and this is MLS, so that's saying a lot) dropped a 3-0 result in Philadelphia on Saturday.
It's tough to know how to judge the Impact while Ignacio Piatti remains missing in action, though the defensive struggles of the club can't be explained away by Piatti's absence.
Previous ranking: 15 Next MLS match: Saturday, April 28, vs. New York City FC (1 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) By no means was the 1-0 win over Vancouver comfortable, but the Lions can't really afford to be picky at this point.
Orlando outshot, out-possessed and outplayed Vancouver in the win, but it's almost as if the lucky deflection off of Nani from Sacha Kljestan was just desserts for Orlando in a must-win game.
Previous ranking: 17 Next MLS match: Sunday, April 28, at Cincinnati (8 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) RSL executed a statement in a hostile environment in Cincinnati and should feel good about a 3-0 win.
That doesn't mean Mike Petke will sit happy back in Utah, especially considering that his side has a different test against the Galaxy coming next weekend.
By the way, Albert Rusnak is pretty good.
Previous ranking: 7 Next MLS match: Saturday, April 27, vs. New England (8.30 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) Things got out of hand quickly for Sporting in San Jose.
Could it have been different if Krisztian Nemeth had converted a penalty in the 26th minute?
Maybe, but Nemeth's shot ended up following the flight path from the planes at nearby San Jose International Airport instead.
For now, SKC is what their record says.
Previous ranking: 19 Next MLS match: Wednesday, April 24, at New York City FC (7 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) The Fire dropped four on Colorado, and though it was only Colorado, that number is a big step forward.
The full influence of Nicolas Gaitan is now evident, and the Argentine is making his presence felt in Bridgeview.
The pair of assists Gaitan provided to the Fire effort should be just the first taste of what he can do.
Previous ranking: 18 Next MLS match: Wednesday, April 24, vs. Chicago (7 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) Alexandru Mitrita and Heber are pretty good.
Both scored in a big win over D.C., a game that changes the feeling in the Eastern Conference thanks to NYCFC's slow start.
There are lots of questions in the East, not the least of which is "who's good?"
considering the reasonable doubts about a number of teams at the top of the conference.
play 1:56 Can Thierry Henry revive the New York Red Bulls?
Following his failure in Monaco, the FC guys discuss what Thierry Henry could offer the New York Red Bulls should he be named head coach.
Previous ranking: 13 Next MLS match: Saturday, April 27, vs. Cincinnati (7 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) It's not getting better for the Red Bulls, who are now more than halfway to their loss total from 2018.
This being MLS, nothing is lost, but the clouds over the team are thick and dark.
Saturday's performance in New England wasn't just disappointing because of the loss, but also because New York never really threatened to score.
Previous ranking: 14 Next MLS match: Saturday, April 27, at New York Red Bulls (7 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) FCC are crashing back to earth after a start that caught most of the league off guard.
It would help to have Fanendo Adi in the lineup, but it's hard to escape the feeling that much of that start was more shock and awe than a result of real quality.
Is this expansion year already a success?
Previous ranking: 16 Next MLS match: Saturday, April 27, vs. Colorado (6 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) A lot is made of Arthur Blank's commitment to his soccer team and his willingness to spend money to make that team successful.
It's worth wondering now, six games into United's 2019 season, if that willingness to spend money extends to a willingness to pay a buyout on a contract for a head coach when things obviously aren't working.
Previous ranking: 20 Next MLS match: Saturday, April 27, vs. Philadelphia (5 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) Wednesday delivered Marc Dos Santos his first MLS win and Vancouver a reason to be hopeful.
Of course, the league rewarded the Whitecaps with a trip across the continent and a match against Orlando on short rest.
Should we throw out the result in Florida or ding Vancouver for losing a tough game on a tough road trip?
Previous ranking: 21 Next MLS match: Wednesday, April 24, vs. Montreal (7.30 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) The margins are small for the Revs.
Whatever progress Brad Friedel's team makes, there seems to be a setback around the corner.
Saturday's win over the Red Bulls is a big deal, but it's hard to see it as a prelude to a massive step forward for the club.
If there's something more coming, Wednesday's match against the Impact might tell the tale.
Previous ranking: 22 Next MLS match: Wednesday, April 24, at Seattle (10:30 p.m.
ET) The Quakes are still near the bottom of the standings, but the performances -- and results -- are improving.
Saturday's 4-1 win over Sporting was emphatic, encouraging and potentially worrying for the rest of the West, especially since coach Matias Almeyda appears to finally have a sense of what his best lineup looks like.
Previous ranking: 24 Next MLS match: Saturday, April 27, at Toronto (3 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) Cue the choir singing "Hallelujah."
The Timbers got themselves a lead with the first goal of the game -- something they hadn't done this season -- and rode it to a win in Columbus.
It serves no purpose for a club as desperate as Portland to look a gift win in the mouth, so we won't either.
Previous ranking: 23 Next MLS match: Saturday, April 27, at Atlanta (6 p.m.
ET, live on ESPN+) Colorado's ugly loss in Chicago sets up a very interesting game next week in Atlanta: the winless Rapids versus a desperate Atlanta United team.
Who will come out on top in a match between two bad teams?
Can Colorado heap more misery on the miserable Five Stripes?
Will Atlanta win a game that will make everyone say "Yeah, but it's the Rapids"?
Growing parity was the overarching theme of 2018-19 in women's college basketball.
Next season could see even more balance.
Oregon will be a favorite to return to the Final Four and Baylor should have a chance to defend its national championship, but everything else is wide open.
With a number of coaching dominoes still to fall and the inevitable run of player transfers, a lot can change between now and next fall.
But that didn't stop us from taking an early look at the preseason top 25 for 2019-20.
All stats refer to final tallies this season.
With Sabrina Ionescu (19.9 PPG, 7.4 RPG, 8.2 APG) returning for her senior season, the Ducks are the favorite to win the national championship next spring.
Ionescu -- who won the Wooden Award and Wade Trophy this season -- will lead every player of the year list, but has plenty of talent around her at Oregon, which is coming off its first Final Four.
Ruthy Hebard (16.1 PPG, 9.1 RPG), Satou Sabally (16.6 PPG, 6.2 RPG) and Erin Boley (12.4 PPG, 108 3-pointers) also return as starters.
Depth became an issue late this season, but the Ducks are expecting the healthy returns of guard Taylor Chavez and 6-foot-4 forward Nyara Sabally, who some have described as an on-court mix between Hebard and older sister, Satou.
The relatively good news on Lauren Cox's knee injury in the national championship game keeps the Lady Bears in position for a repeat.
The title game illustrated just how important the 6-4 Cox (13.0 PPG, 8.3 RPG, 1.7 BPG) is to coach Kim Mulkey's game plan.
If completely healthy, Cox will be a favorite for national player of the year honors alongside Ionescu and anchors a still-talented roster.
DiDi Richards (7.2 PPG, 4.1 APG) made a huge jump in the NCAA tournament.
She and Juicy Landrum (11.1 PPG, 5.1 RPG, 3.9 APG) are both talented two-way guards.
Aside from NaLyssa Smith (8.4 PPG, 5.1 RPG), the vaunted recruiting class from a year ago didn't contribute much to the national championship run, but Mulkey says she believes those young players will be ready to take the mantle.
Big jumps by the likes of 6-foot Aquira DeCosta and 6-3 Queen Egbo will be imperative.
Even with a recovered Cox, Baylor still has to replace All-American post Kalani Brown (15.8 PPG, 8.2 RPG).
Guard Honesty Scott-Grayson might have to be ready to take over the point with Final Four most outstanding player Chloe Jackson (11.7 PPG, 5.3 APG) gone.
Tara VanDerveer will have to find a low-post threat with the departure of Alanna Smith (19.4 PPG, 8.6 RPG), but the Stanford coach shouldn't have much else about which to worry.
The incoming freshman class -- led by Haley Jones, the No.
1-rated recruit according to HoopGurlz, and dunking sensation Fran Belibi -- will get plenty of attention, but the rest of the Cardinal core is back.
Kiana Williams (14.3 PPG, 4.7 APG) and DiJonai Carrington (14.0 PPG, 7.5 RPG) will anchor a backcourt that also includes Lexie and Lacie Hull, and can incorporate Jones into any one of three positions.
Maya Dodson and Nadia Fingall (expected back from a knee injury) should be even more productive with more opportunity.
Ashten Prechtel, a 6-5 post player, is also expected to contribute immediately.
With most of its rotation players back and two top-20 recruits on the way, the Terrapins will be the big favorite to win the Big Ten championship for the fifth time in six seasons.
Kaila Charles (17.0 PPG, 6.7 RPG) will be on plenty of preseason All-America lists, Taylor Mikesell could be one of the country's best 3-point shooters (41.1 percent) and 6-5 Shakira Austin has the potential to average a double-double in her second season.
Ashley Owusu out of Virginia represents the top prep point guard prospect in the country.
The same Aggies who finished third in the SEC and reached the Sweet 16 should look much like the same team next season.
Gary Blair returns 97 percent of his scoring and 99 percent of his rebounding.
Of course, that includes guard Chennedy Carter (23.3 PPG, 40.3 field goal percentage), the second-leading returning scorer in the country, and fellow sophomores Kayla Wells (15.1 PPG), Aaliyah Wilson (13.8 PPG), Ciera Johnson (12.0 PPG), N'dea Jones and Jada Walton.
With all of that experience, Texas A&M should challenge South Carolina for SEC supremacy.
Oregon State will have size to spare with incoming freshman 6-6 Kennedy Brown and 6-3 Taylor Jones to go along with 6-9 Andrea Aquino, who redshirted this season, and 6-7 Patricia Morris, who played sparingly as a freshman.
The backcourt, though, is the key to the Beavers' success and more of a sure thing.
Destiny Slocum (team-high 15.4 PPG and 4.5 APG) should be even better in her second season in Corvallis at the point.
Aleah Goodman (10.7 PPG) and Mikayla Pivec (15.2 PPG, team-high 9.2 RPG) provide versatility and, if Kat Tudor (46.5 3-point field goal percentage) can come back from a torn ACL in her left knee suffered in January, the Beavers also have an elite shooter.
The vibe around the Huskies will be different than it has been in a long time.
They will not be a favorite to reach the Final Four, a place they have been every year since 2008.
The connection to the last UConn national championship is also gone without Katie Lou Samuelson and Napheesa Collier -- who combined to average 39.3 PPG last season before being selected among the first six picks in last week's WNBA draft.
Still, the situation is far from dire in Storrs, Connecticut, with the Huskies' three other starters -- Crystal Dangerfield (13.4 PPG, 5.9 APG), Megan Walker (12.1 PPG, 6.7 RPG) and Christyn Williams (11.7 PPG) -- returning.
How much improvement Geno Auriemma gets out of Olivia Nelson-Ododa, who took some significant strides late in the season, and the possible production from incoming 6-1 freshman Aubrey Griffin will determine if there is a drop-off.
For the second straight year, coach Vic Schaefer has to replace four starters yet still should have enough talent to compete for a top-10 spot.
Bre'Amber Scott (7.1 PPG) and Andra Espinoza-Hunter (9.0 PPG) should be ready to take on much bigger roles, and if Chloe Bibby (11.9 PPG) can return from a knee injury, the Bulldogs will have three legitimate 3-point threats.
Promise Taylor, a 6-5 transfer from Ole Miss, will step in for Teaira McCowan in the middle, but should also get help from 6-5 Jessika Carter, who spent her first season in Starkville behind McCowan.
Point guard Myah Taylor, who sat out as a redshirt this season but was a five-star recruit a year ago, could be the key.
The Gamecocks have the nation's top-rated recruiting class coming to Columbia next season.
Led by top-10 recruits Aliyah Boston, point guard Zia Cooke and forward Laeticia Amihere, some believe it's the best class the sport has seen in some time.
Once a Final Four favorite, the Gamecocks will have to rely heavily on their youth.
Within the past 10 days, four players -- most notably juniors Te'a Cooper (team-high 11.9 PPG) and Mikiah Herbert Harrigan (10.4 PPG) -- announced they were transferring, though Herbert Harrigan has reportedly withdrawn her name from the transfer portal.
Junior Tyasha Harris (10.9 PPG, 5.3 APG) and freshman Destanni Henderson are both returning to the backcourt.
Tiana Mangakahia's decision to come back for her senior season puts the Orange in a position to challenge for ACC title next season.
Mangakahia (16.9 PPG, 8.4 APG) led Syracuse in scoring and was second in the country in assists and should be on most preseason All-America lists.
Syracuse loses second-leading scorer and top 3-point threat Miranda Drummond (11.3 PPG), but the next seven top scorers return for Quentin Hillsman's deep rotation.
A big improvement from Emily Engstler, who was a top recruit a year ago but had an up-and-down freshman season, would give the Orange offense a big boost.
One of the youngest teams in the country gets a little older and probably a little better next season.
The top three scorers -- Kiah Gillespie (16.2 PPG, 9.3 RPG), Nicki Ekhomu (15.0 PPG, 4.0 APG) and Nausia Woolfolk (13.5 PPG) -- return for their senior seasons, but the rest of the core will largely be made up of second-year players, led by Valencia Myers and Morgan Jones.
The Seminoles played all of last season with only nine scholarship players, so 6-5 River Baldwin and 6-1 Sammie Puisis, a pair of McDonald's All Americans, should have immediate opportunities.
Matthew Mitchell has to replace his entire backcourt, and losing program mainstays Maci Morris and Taylor Murray -- they combined for 27.5 PPG -- to graduation is a huge blow.
It is made easier, however, with the arrival of a pair of transfers.
Sabrina Haines (Arizona State) and Chasity Patterson (Texas) should be the Wildcats new guard tandem once Patterson, the nation's top prep point guard prospect two years ago, becomes eligible to play in January.
They will join Rhyne Howard, espnW's national freshman of the year, in a lineup that still has plenty of firepower.
Jenna Allen (12.5 PPG, 6.5 RPG), the heart and soul of the team, is gone, but she was the only senior on the roster.
The Spartans shook off some early injuries to make a return to the NCAA tournament.
With a full season from guard Shay Colley (14.1 PPG), plus the continued development of freshman guard Nia Clouden (12.0 PPG, 3.9 APG), Michigan State should be in position to challenge Maryland for Big Ten supremacy.
This ranking elevates if Georgia Tech transfers Elizabeth Balogun and Elizabeth Dixon become eligible right away.
That decision is still to come.
The Cardinals also get Cal transfer Kianna Smith, but she will sit out the 2019-20 season.
Balogun and Dixon would give coach Jeff Walz a speedier way to restock after losing Asia Durr (21.2 PPG), the school's second all-time leading scorer and the second pick in the WNBA draft, Sam Fuehring (10.8 PPG, team-high 7.2 RPG) and Arica Carter (8.5 PPG).
If Walz does need to rebuild with the three transfers on the sideline, the Cardinals still return veterans Jazmine Jones, Kylee Shook, Bionca Dunham and Dana Evans as the foundation.
Injuries and inconsistency led to a disappointing season in Austin, Texas.
Turning that around begins with All-Big 12 point guard Sug Sutton (12.7 PPG, 5.4 APG), but then the questions begin.
Is Joyner Holmes (11.8 PPG, 6.7 RPG) ready to be the star she was once projected to be?
Will Charli Collier live up to her billing as the top prospect of 2018 or continue to be the role player she was this season?
Will 6-7 Sedona Prince, another highly regarded recruit, recover from a broken leg that cost her the season?
Can Audrey Warren be the backcourt running mate Sutton needs?
If the majority of these can be answered positively, the Longhorns should regain their place right behind Baylor in the Big 12.
Because of what Cori Close has built in Westwood, the Bruins can withstand graduation losses of players like Kennedy Burke (15.4 PPG, 6.2 RPG) and Japreece Dean (14.1 PPG, 4.9 APG).
Close can build around the athletic Michaela Onyenwere (18.3 PPG, 8.5 RPG), the club's leading scorer and rebounder, and a solid recruiting class led by point guard Jaden Owens.
The 2019-20 season will be a long way from having five WNBA draft picks in the starting lineup, but the Irish have some talented young players and a Hall of Fame coach on the sideline.
Muffet McGraw brought in a top-10 recruiting class last season and its time has arrived after losing a starting lineup that combined for 80.4 PPG (91 percent) of the nation's No.
1 offense this season.
Guard Abby Prohaska (14.4 MPG) was the only rookie who played meaningful minutes.
Point guards Jordan Nixon and Katlyn Gilbert, and 6-4 post Danielle Cosgrove, will now become starters.
The Irish probably won't get back to the Final Four or even win the ACC, but if these underclassmen learned anything, the drop-off won't be too steep.
Lindsay Whalen's first season as head coach at her alma mater ended in the second round of the WNIT, but despite the loss of top scorer Kenisha Bell (19.1 PPG, 4.4 APG), the Gophers could be set for better things next season.
Destiny Pitts (16.3 PPG, 81 3-pointers), Taiye Bello (9.7 PPG, team-high 11.9 rebounds) and Jasmine Brunson (8.4 PPG) are back.
The final piece to a return to the NCAA tournament will be the health of guard Gadiva Hubbard, who averaged 13.6 PPG as a sophomore in 2017-18 but missed all of last season because of a foot injury.
After a trip to the Sweet 16, the Sun Devils have won at least one NCAA tournament game in five of the past six seasons.
To do it again, Charli Turner Thorne will have to replace Kianna Ibis (14.1 PPG) and Courtney Ekmark (10.3 PPG), the Sun Devils' top two scorers this past season.
As is the case most years, though, the roster is deep in Tempe, Arizona, led by returning guards Robbi Ryan and Reili Richardson (5.0 APG).
Despite some heavy graduation losses, the Blue Demons should be the favorites in the Big East next season.
With a core group of Chante Stonewall (14.3 PPG, 46.2 field goal percentage), Kelly Campbell and Lexi Held, DePaul will still play fast, space the floor and shoot plenty of 3-pointers (a nation-high 1,121 attempts last season).
Coach Kim Barnes Arico returns freshmen Naz Hillmon (13.1 PPG, 7.0 RPG), the team's leading scorer and rebounder, and Amy Dilk (4.4 APG), who led the Wolverines in assists, as she looks to build on the momentum of an 8-1 finish in the regular season followed by a first-round NCAA tournament win.
After an electric run at the SEC tournament and reaching the third round of the WNIT, the Razorbacks' trajectory is pointing up.
Coach Mike Neighbors has big-time scorer Chelsea Dungee (20.5 PPG) to build around, but also has five of his next six top point producers back.
Guard Amber Ramirez, a former McDonald's All American, is now eligible after her transfer from TCU.
Tynice Martin will be a full season removed from her foot injury, and Kysre Gondrezick will have a year of experience playing in Morgantown, West Virginia, giving coach Mike Carey a backcourt that should get the Mountaineers back to the NCAA tournament.
With Kellie Harper in place as the Lady Vols' new coach, the question turns to the composition of next season's roster.
Even with Evina Westbrook (14.9 PPG, 5.3 APG) transferring, there's enough talent to put Tennessee among the 25 best teams in the country.
Rennia Davis (14.9 PPG, 7.7 RPG), Zaay Green and Mimi Collins give Harper a good starting point as she adjusts to life coaching in the SEC.
Despite major injury losses, the Wolfpack put together a successful season that included a program-best 21-0 start.
Repeating that will be difficult without Kiara Leslie (15.9 PPG, 7.2 RPG), but 6-5 freshman center Elissa Cunane (13.6 PPG, 6.3 RPG) gives coach Wes Moore one of the best post players in the ACC around whom to build.
Also considered: Indiana, Rice, Miami, BYU, Auburn
KANSAS CITY, Mo.
-- In the moments leading up to the start of the 2017 NFL draft, sports agent Leigh Steinberg sat with relative calm at a party thrown by his client, Patrick Mahomes.
The star quarterback from Texas Tech had opted to rent a country club in Tyler, Texas, to watch the proceedings with family and friends, rather than travel to the draft in Philadelphia.
Mahomes and many of his guests settled in for what it seemed could be a long night, with Mahomes thinking he might not be selected until the third round, which would take place the next day.
Steinberg, a veteran agent who has represented Hall of Fame quarterbacks Troy Aikman and Steve Young, among others, sensed that the night would proceed a lot faster for his client than what was commonly believed.
"The draft is less mysterious when one is representing a player than it is to the general public," Steinberg said.
"The Chiefs expressed interest to us early in the process, and we knew they really liked Patrick.
But they were going to have to move up several spots if they were going to make it happen."
Trading up for Mahomes Bills received: 2017 first-round pick: No.
27 overall, Tre'Davious White 2017 third-round pick: No.
91 overall, later traded for assets that allowed the Bills to draft receiver Zay Jones and offensive tackle Dion Dawkins in the second round 2018 first-round pick: No.
22 overall, traded to Baltimore along with a third-round pick for No.
16 overall, with which the Bills drafted linebacker Tremaine Edmunds Chiefs received: 2017 first-round pick: No.
10 overall, Patrick Mahomes At Chiefs headquarters in Kansas City, team chairman Clark Hunt was far more nervous.
The Chiefs had gone with journeymen quarterbacks and discarded players at the game's most important position for almost all of their 57 seasons.
But in Mahomes, the franchise had finally identified a young prospect it thought it had to have.
The Chiefs did not pick until No.
27, though, and like Steinberg, they were aware that they wouldn't get Mahomes without making a big leap in the first round.
They had discussed deals with five or six teams near the top of the draft -- with at least one trade locked in place.
But the variables were too many for the Chiefs to feel confident about getting Mahomes.
"We knew that we were interested in Patrick, and if the opportunity came along for us to trade up and get him, it was something that we wanted to do," Hunt said.
"I would say that in a lot of ways, it made it more of a nervous first hour just watching the players come off the board."
With Mahomes still available as the draft reached the 10th pick, the Chiefs took that trade they'd had in place.
They sent the 27th pick, a third-round selection and their first-round choice in 2018 to the Buffalo Bills for the right to draft Mahomes with the 10th pick.
The trade looks like one that will alter the balance of power in the AFC for years to come, something the Chiefs sensed when they made it.
"It was pretty tense in [the draft room] for a little bit because we knew there were a couple other teams trying to get him," coach Andy Reid said.
"There was a bit of tension, but everyone was excited when it happened.
It wasn't one of those deals where half the room was in on him and half wasn't.
Everybody was in on this kid and liked him, so everyone was pretty fired up."
The timing was right in more ways than one for the Chiefs to draft a quarterback in the first round for the first time in 34 years.
They had a veteran quarterback in Alex Smith, but some in the organization thought the Chiefs had gone as far as they could with him.
Patrick Mahomes and Leigh Steinberg react to news that the Chiefs would be taking Mahomes with the 10th pick of the 2017 NFL draft.
Chelsea Purgahn/Tyler Morning Telegraph/AP Photo Smith led the Chiefs to the 2016 AFC West championship, their first in six years, but hadn't been able to get Kansas City past the divisional round of the playoffs in his four seasons as the starter.
At the time of the 2017 draft, Smith was a couple of weeks short of his 33rd birthday.
More importantly, Mahomes was a quarterback prospect like few others Reid had seen.
"Everybody liked this guy," Reid said.
"We couldn't find anybody that didn't like him.
I thought Willie [Davis] did a great job of scouting him.
That's his area right there -- that Texas area right there and Texas Tech in particular.
I thought he did a good job of scouting him.
"We got to know the kid before we got to know the kid.
Everybody kind of just fell in love with the kid and what he was all about and how he went about his business and how he played.
That doesn't happen every year.
I'm saying it like it's easy.
That's not something that happens every year.
When that happens, Ron Wolf told me this a long time ago: 'If you have one of those guys that you like, you go get them.'"
If the NFL were to do the 2017 draft over, Mahomes would be the No.
1 overall pick.
In his first season as a starter in 2018, Mahomes became the second quarterback in league history to throw for 50 touchdowns and more than 5,000 yards.
The Chiefs advanced to the AFC Championship Game for the first time in 25 years, losing to the eventual Super Bowl champion New England Patriots.
Draft Academy Draft Academy documents the journey of six prospects: Nick Bosa, Marquise Brown, Drew Lock, Tyree Jackson, Jarrett Stidham and Josh Jacobs.
Watch on ESPN+ At the time of the draft in 2017, the Chiefs didn't need to move up to the top pick to draft Mahomes, though.
John Dorsey, the Chiefs' general manager at the time, read the draft perfectly by jumping to 10 but no higher.
"The draft prognosticators are projecting things, and if you recall, they had anointed this trio of [Mitchell] Trubisky, [Deshaun] Watson and DeShone Kizer, and they were considered the top-round quarterbacks," Steinberg said.
"At the beginning, they had Patrick at best a second-rounder.
Everybody publicly was saying he was years away from being ready to play, but teams were communicating with us, and we were aware Kansas City liked him very much.
We were also aware there were a number of other teams that liked him, teams like the Arizona Cardinals, the New York Giants, the New Orleans Saints, the Pittsburgh Steelers.
There were teams that would try to make the move a year early to try to prepare their next starting QB.
"We're sitting there on the night of the draft, and there's communication going back and forth between teams and agents.
It's not something you see, but we're on our phones talking with coaches and general managers.
We were aware of certain teams that said they were trying to trade up.
If Kansas City hadn't gone exactly where they went, he would have been gone.
He would have been gone on the very next pick."
Dorsey had much the same sense.
He identified the Cardinals, Giants and Saints as teams the Chiefs needed to maneuver in front of.
The Saints picked 11th, the Cardinals 13th and the Giants 23rd.
"I tried to read as much as I could, in terms of reading the other 31 teams and seeing where they were positioning," Dorsey said shortly after Mahomes was drafted.
"I felt to get this player, I had to be at 10.
"I know there were three teams that wanted this player very badly, and I got a text or two [afterward] asking, 'How'd you do that?'
It worked.
I've got to thank the Buffalo Bills.
They were willing to acquire some picks, and that would help them as well, so it helped out both parties."
Dorsey and Doug Whaley, then the Bills' general manager, started discussing the trade at the NFL scouting combine in February.
They got serious about trade terms in the days leading up to the draft.
Whaley said last week that he didn't know the player the Chiefs were after and didn't suspect it was a quarterback, despite the steep move from 27 to 10.
"Not at all," said Whaley, who was fired shortly after that draft for reasons not having to do with the Mahomes trade.
"The Chiefs played it right.
With Alex Smith on their roster, we didn't think they were coming up for a quarterback.
"From our standpoint, we had a new coach, and we thought the trade gives us a chance to drop down and still get a really good player and still have two [first-rounders] the next year.
At the time, it was something we thought was very beneficial for the Buffalo Bills.
In our situation, we thought it was a win for us and a win for them.
They got the guy they wanted.
We got the guy we wanted and an extra first-round pick the next year."
The pertinent question now, of course, is what the Bills would have done with that 10th pick had they not sent it to the Chiefs.
The Bills needed a quarterback at the time, and last year they drafted Josh Allen in the first round.
"That's hard to say," Whaley said.
"Once we got close, we knew we were going to take the trade."
Would the Bills have taken Mahomes?
"There's always the possibility," he said.
If so, Mahomes and his 50 TD passes and 5,000 yards could be with the Bills.
The Chiefs might still be quarterbacked by Smith, who was eventually traded to Washington.
That isn't a scenario the Chiefs want to contemplate.
They have a long-standing organizational policy that trading a future first-round pick requires approval of ownership.
In this case, Hunt was eager to approve.
"It's not a decision that I took lightly," Hunt said.
"But with all things considered, it was not a hard decision.
The chance to get a quarterback who can be a franchise quarterback for the Chiefs in the future made it a pretty easy decision."
During the changeover following the fifth game of the second set in Sunday's Monte Carlo Masters final, Fabio Fognini had his already-taped ankle more heavily bound.
He also had the trainer heavily wrap his right thigh.
It looked as if he might not be able to finish the championship match against Dusan Lajovic, let alone win it.
Returning to the court, Fognini served his first ball.
Lajovic engaged him in a long, spirited rally, testing Fognini's leg.
The point ended when Fognini darted forward and heavily cut a backhand, sidespin drop shot -- his finesse so acute that even on television you could see him let his wrist go slack at precisely the right moment.
The ball floated across the net, kissed the clay, and curved on the bounce, out of court, just beyond the reach of a lunging Lajovic.
Fabulous Fabio's shot was remarkable and unpredictable, an apt symbol for the way the first of this year's Euroclay Masters events played out.
Going in, the internet was aflame with anticipation of a final between the two top-ranked players in the world, Big Four icons Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal.
Instead, the tournament produced a pair of first-time Masters finalists, including the lowest-ranked Masters finalist (No.
48 Lajovic) since 2001.
Fognini, the Italian touch artist seeded No.
13 (and winless on clay this year before the tournament), went on to win the title with a 6-3, 6-4 victory in the final.
The effort capped a week of astonishing upsets and -- for the game's stars both young and old -- sobering realities.
.
@fabiofogna joins the list of 1st-time #ATPMasters1000 champions (since 2017 Rome) with his title @RolexMCMasters.
In the 17 previous Masters 1000 events the only player to win his 1st crown, @cilic_marin in 2016 @CincyTennis.
@TennisChannel pic.twitter.com/U8v9Qt5kjw Greg Sharko (@SharkoTennis) April 21, 2019 Here are five things we learned during the course of a chilly, windy week in Monaco.
All bets are off for Roland Garros Going back more than a decade, a member of the Big Four -- Djokovic, Nadal, Roger Federer or Andy Murray -- has won 33 of the 36 Masters 1000 titles on clay.
Until Alexander Zverev won at Rome in 2017 (and Madrid in 2018), the lone "outsider" to take a clay Masters event was himself a Grand Slam champ, Stan Wawrinka (Monte Carlo in 2014).
Sure, the weather was lousy last week in Monte Carlo, but it has been challenging in many previous years as well.
Yes, there were some truly improbable comebacks, but they were balanced nicely by tidy, artful beatdowns.
And it's entirely possible that Nadal and Djokovic will round back into championship form before the French Open.
It is, after all, a full month-plus distant.
But forget for a moment about those 30-something big dogs.
The chief challengers of the ATP's graying poster boys were taught harsh lessons as well.
Dominic Thiem, seeded No.
4 and considered the most likely successor to Nadal as a dominant clay-court expert, lost to Lajovic.
No.
3 seed Zverev, a two-time Masters champ on clay, was knocked off by Fognini.
That the winners of those two matches went on to contest the final tells us those upsets weren't flukes.
Monte Carlo hosted a comprehensive but not at all cockamamie breakdown of the ATP status quo.
Maybe the old order can be restored in the coming weeks.
Maybe not.
Rafael Nadal returned from injury at Monte Carlo, but his dominance on clay was tested in a thorough semifinal loss to eventual champ Fabio Fognini.
Clive Brunskill/Getty Images Rafael Nadal is on the brink The No.
2-ranked player has never been easily discouraged.
Nadal has fought back, on almost too many occasions to count, from injuries that sometimes approached career-threatening status.
Over time, the stops and starts have taken their toll, eating away at the spirit as well as the game of the salty, leather-tough competitor.
Monte Carlo, where Nadal has won 11 titles and owned a 15-match winning streak entering this year's tournament, seemed like the ideal place for him to reassert his superiority on clay.
It would also be the ideal place to wipe out the bitter aftertaste of that woeful loss to Djokovic at the Australian Open -- or the bitter, third-set tiebreaker loss against Nick Kyrgios in Acapulco.
That was the last tournament Nadal played to completion before withdrawing from the tour for a month to rest his sore right knee.
Nadal, 32, seemed healed and ready to resume his place atop the clay game through three savagely efficient two-set wins in Monte Carlo.
But Fognini, who has bamboozled Nadal on three previous occasions on clay, shut him down with comparable force in the semifinals.
"I probably played one of the worst matches on clay in 14 years," Nadal told reporters afterward.
He went on to ruminate over the toll exacted by injuries that have prevented him from establishing continuity for about 18 months now.
He said, "[It] is more difficult to hold sometimes the level every single day when you don't have confidence in tournaments in a row, or matches in a row."
Nadal has time to re-establish continuity over the coming weeks.
But his status as the heavy favorite at the French Open is on hold.
Novak Djokovic isn't panicking.
Yet.
Monte Carlo, where No.
1 seed and local resident Djokovic was a two-time winner, also seemed like an ideal place for Djokovic to hit the reset key.
Unlike Nadal, Djokovic was not returning from injury.
The 31-year-old Serbian star was merely returning from poor play that left the Australian Open champion a surprise loser relatively early at the two North American spring hard-court events.
Djokovic has won the past three Grand Slams, and he has an overwhelming lead in the ATP rankings (as of Monday, he has a 3,075-point lead over No.
2 Nadal).
There's certainly no need for Djokovic to panic.
But in many matches, including his three-set quarterfinal loss to Medvedev, his game lacked the lethal edge and aggression that carried him back to the top over the past nine months.
The most optimistic interpretation is that Djokovic is suffering from the "been there, done that" blues and needs the stimulation of a pending major to spark his best tennis.
Addressing reporters after his loss, Djokovic said of his recent passive streak: "I obviously still am lacking that determination to go for the shots maybe in some points.
Just too many unforced errors.
... Maybe I'm lacking the consistency with the top results in the last couple of years in the best tournaments, but Grand Slams I have been playing my best, and that's what I intend to do."
The disruptors are writing the script The players who upset the ATP applecart in Monte Carlo were not the usual suspects.
Fognini will be 32 years old within a month.
He's won a respectable eight titles but has been as mercurial and moody as he is gifted.
If he experiences a late-career conversion to consistency, there's no end to the trouble he can cause his peers.
Lajovic, 28, had never won more than three matches at any given tournament, never mind an ATP title.
His game has a DIY look, but it's more dangerous than it appears.
And he's a scrapper.
Meanwhile, dangerous Jo-Wilfried Tsonga is on the mend, and Gael Monfils was playing torrid tennis until a strained Achilles forced him to withdraw at Indian Wells (Monfils is expected back for Estoril at the end of this month).
Next Gen standouts Daniil Medvedev (who leads the tour with 21 wins in 2019 and knocked off Djokovic last week) and Borna Coric were solid in Monte Carlo, losing to Lajovic and Fognini, respectively.
Most important: Juan Martin del Potro, the disrupter-in-chief of the ATP Tour, is penciled in for Madrid early next month.
And while it's ridiculous to cast No.
4 Roger Federer as a spoiler, he's coming off a two-year Euroclay hiatus and is also returning at Madrid.
It appears he will have his hands full, but the Swiss icon might also end up driving the narrative.
Maybe next time for the Next Gen The appealing fleet of rising 21-and-under players (and a few recent Next Gen graduates, including No.
8 seed Karen Khachanov) mainly took it on the chin in Monte Carlo.
It was surprising to some, given how the youngsters had lit it up in the previous Masters event, last month's Miami Open.
Medvedev was the only powerful Next Gen force in the tournament.
Khachanov, No.
6 seed Stefanos Tsitsipas, No.
15 Denis Shapovalov and wild card Felix Auger-Aliassime all fell by the wayside relatively early.
Tsitsipas made it as far as the round of 16, where he lost yet another tough three-setter to bitter rival Medvedev.
The 23-year-old No.
10 seed from Russia -- a recent Next Gen graduate -- is now, at 4-0 in their series, officially in the head of Tsitsipas.
Khachanov, a Masters champ himself (Paris in 2018), is a woeful 7-8 on the year.
It seems that no individual or cohort is immune to the volatility that is becoming the new ATP zeitgeist.
LOS ANGELES -- Fifteen minutes into one of his first Korean BBQ experiences, Riccardo "Reynor" Romiti -- the freshly minted StarCraft II World Championship Series Winter: Europe champion -- uttered a phrase he's rarely used, on or off the StarCraft stage.
"I give up!"
he said with a sigh, shaking his head.
A piece of beef slipped out of its rice-paper wrapping and onto his plate.
Despite his exasperation, once he finished eating the wayward beef, he picked up another piece, placed it on the rice paper and tried again.
To Reynor's right, his WCS trophy gleamed through the smoke rising from the grill.
To his left, one of his team managers, GamersOrigin esports director Yann-Cedric Mainguy, laughed.
Mainguy wrapped his cut of pork belly with the rice paper and quickly popped it into his mouth.
The next attempt nearly succeeded for a determined Reynor, until the rice paper slipped from his chopsticks and fell open.
"You can win WCS at 16, but you cannot eat Korean BBQ," Mainguy said with a laugh.
Reynor might be a Grandmaster in Starcraft, but he has yet to master the skill of rolling up his Korean BBQ beef in rice paper.
September Dawn Bottoms The dining experience has oddly become a universal esports experience, thanks in large part to South Korea's dominion over most professional esports.
It's a shared meal with teammates, friends and staff, regardless of if a player is in Seoul to train against the best or in Los Angeles to compete, as Reynor was the weekend of April 7.
Reynor competed in South Korea for the Global StarCraft II League (GSL) and even celebrated his 16th birthday there, but the day of his WCS victory was only his second time eating Korean BBQ.
"I ordered a lot of chicken," Reynor said of his time in South Korea.
Hotel training rooms, tables filled with computers and littered with empty boxes of fried chicken are also a universal esports experience.
And so is the game of StarCraft itself.
Anyone involved in esports past a certain age will almost always cite StarCraft: Brood War as their first brush with esports and talk excitedly about watching the grandeur of OnGameNet Starleague or bemoan their individual failures on the tough competitive ladder.
Nearly everyone in esports has their StarCraft story, whether they played it themselves or were simply inspired and affected by the game.
Above all other things, StarCraft requires finesse.
Patience, cunning and decisiveness are all valued in the real-time strategy game, along with myriad other traits.
There's a delicate beauty to the game, a subtlety that requires peerless mechanical skill and the ability to manipulate micro units while keeping an eye on the macro picture.
No other competitive video game tries to split the senses or test mechanics quite like StarCraft.
Among all games, even with the rise of more popular offerings and multiple iterations since StarCraft's Brood War heyday, this Blizzard title still has the reputation of being the most difficult esport.
But a game that once brought thousands of fans to the beaches of Busan, South Korea, and hundreds of thousands of dollars in prize money, is aging out of relevance in the esports scene.
StarCraft's first edition was released in March 1998, four years before Reynor was born.
Its popular expansion pack, Brood War, was released in November that year.
By the time his father took Riccardo Romiti on his eighth birthday in 2010 to the store to purchase the game, competitive StarCraft was still reeling from recently uncovered match-fixing scandals in South Korea.
As a wide-eyed Reynor began to play StarCraft, the game itself was at a precipice, before falling, gracelessly and slowly, out of favor for the next several years.
Regardless of StarCraft's trajectory, the game Reynor's father bought him that day in 2010 changed the direction of his life forever.
"I actually have no idea why StarCraft," Reynor said, laughing.
"I just saw StarCraft and was like, 'I want this one.'
And my dad was like, 'It's the difficult one.'
But then I convinced him, and we started together."
After struggling throughout the meal with rice paper, Reynor decided to cook some of the Korean BBQ meat himself.
September Dawn Bottoms Reynor immediately leapt into competitive play, bypassing the game's campaign entirely.
He picked Zerg because he liked the micro units, and Zerg has a lot of units.
These choices made the game infinitely more difficult for his young mind, but he was having fun.
It was a game that he and his father, an amateur StarCraft player in Italy, played together.
When Reynor was 9, he beat his father for the first time.
When he was 12 years and 40 days old, he became the youngest player in the history of StarCraft to reach Grandmaster rank, which is the highest ranking for players in a given region of the world.
"I just kept playing and got somewhat good," Reynor said.
"And I just played for fun.
I climbed the ladder, and it just happened."
The first person he called was his father.
"He was so happy.
I remember, I called him at 3 a.m. because I was in Switzerland at the gaming house, and he was so happy," Reynor said.
He paused, thinking for a moment before smiling brightly.
"Actually, he was worried at first because I called him at 3 a.m., and he was like, 'What happened?'
I was like, 'Oh, I got GM!'
And he was like, 'That's amazing!'"
As Reynor began to rise through the ranks, competing at various tournaments, StarCraft became even more of a family affair.
Reynor's father chaperoned him at his earliest tournaments because Reynor was far too young to go to competitions on his own.
His brother also plays; Reynor said with a wide grin that even though his 13-year-old sibling is at Master rank now, he'll never be able to beat Reynor.
"Even when my mom watches the game, she looks at the supply and everything," Reynor said.
"It makes it really fun."
Fun is what has kept Reynor playing StarCraft for eight years now rather than switching to another competitive esport.
Although Reynor wouldn't call himself a prodigy, he is, by definition and accomplishment at such a young age, prodigious.
Most European players with his level of mechanical skill would have sought out a more lucrative and popular esport like League of Legends to stake their future careers on, but the thought of leaving StarCraft has never occurred to Reynor.
That said, the thought of making a career out of StarCraft also never occured to Reynor, either.
"There was not like a turning point for me," he said.
"I just started to realize time by time, and so I wasn't like, 'Oh, I'm a pro gamer now!'"
Only after defeating Joona "Serral" Sotala -- the 21-year-old Finnish star and fellow Zerg who was BlizzCon 2018 champion -- to win the WCS Winter: Europe title did Reynor accept that StarCraft could be a potential career.
He admitted this, like most things, with a shrug and a beaming smile.
If he wasn't making money at StarCraft, he said, he'd likely be doing the same things other kids his age do; as it is, he's still studying computer programming and doing other "normal stuff" when he's not tearing down the biggest stars in StarCraft.
Halfway through the meal, Reynor momentarily abandoned his ill-fated attempts with the slippery rice paper to cook the meat and feed everyone at the table while the group shared StarCraft stories.
Reynor's WCS trophy on the table during his Korean BBQ victory dinner served as a reminder of how far the 16-year-old has come in playing Starcraft.
September Dawn Bottoms For the entirety of his victory dinner, the WCS trophy sat on the table, a proud reminder.
Were it any other player, the trophy's place at dinner might have seemed an arrogant display, but paired with Reynor's buoyant, happy nature, it became a genuine celebration of StarCraft itself.
Reynor's existence, not only his personality but his status as a rising European star in the esport, is also a testament to the game.
Along with Serral, who's established himself as one of the best players in the world and became the first non-South Korean player to win the WCS Grand Finals, Reynor offers hope for a revival of the real-time strategy (RTS) title's pro scene.
In a world where StarCraft has seen itself outpaced in popularity and marketing by games like League of Legends or Blizzard Entertainment's own Overwatch and the Overwatch League, Reynor's outlook on the game is overwhelmingly positive.
"I think it's because the game always changes," Reynor said of StarCraft's ability to stubbornly stick around as a competitive esport despite many trying years.
"Even now, for example, Ling Lurker is a new thing.
Even after nine years, you always discover new things.
It's also just really fun to watch."
And as for StarCraft being a "dead game"?
"I think it became a joke more than anything else," Reynor said.
"This year and last year StarCraft views have been higher than ever, so how can you say it's dead if you're increasing the viewership?"
The same stubbornness that drove Reynor to grind for a year at age 8 in order to beat his father guides his opinion of StarCraft's future and also informs his play in game.
In Game 3 of the WCS finals, he used a Ling Lurker strategy that was criticized by other professionals and punished by Serral, giving Serral his first win of the series.
Despite losing that game, Reynor resolutely stuck to his strategy, saying that if he had played the matchup a bit better, it would have worked out.
"They keep saying it's bad, but I've never lost with it.
This is the first loss," Reynor said, laughing.
"I'm like 20-0 until now.
It wasn't supposed to get scouted.
That's why I lost."
His smile hints that fans might not have seen the last of him trying out this strategy onstage, despite with it being near universally panned by his friends and peers.
Reynor will continue to climb the ranks in Starcraft if he wins a title at BlizzCon in the fall.
September Dawn Bottoms Reynor is very familiar with Serral, first as a player in the scene to look up to, then as an occasional practice partner and now as the strongest opponent standing between him and the title of best StarCraft player in Europe.
Reynor avoids playing against Serral too often now in practice because he will most likely face him in most competitions.
Their recent bout in WCS went Reynor's way, but it was a rematch of a similarly close 2018 WCS Montreal final that ended with a 4-3 Serral victory that kept Reynor out of the WCS Global Finals at BlizzCon in November 2018.
Serral went on to win that entire tournament, beating Kim "Stats" Dae-yeob in the final match in Anaheim, California, and making StarCraft history by becoming the first non-South Korean player to win a global finals.
Despite Reynor's victory over his celebrated opponent in early April, he still isn't ready to call himself the best European player.
He'll claim that title only if he wins at BlizzCon.
"I still think in a standard game, Serral is better," Reynor said.
"I prepared better for this match, but it's probably 50-50."
With BlizzCon taking place in fall 2019, Reynor's test as a true professional StarCraft player now begins.
Before, he was a remarkably young, prodigious talent, taking maps and series off of his presumed betters.
Now he's a WCS champion, and his next few results will determine whether this trophy is an outlier or the beginning of a strong career.
Signs point to the latter, and at 16 years old, he likely has a lot more trophies, Korean BBQ victory dinners and rice paper ahead of him, too.
It was "just another day in White Sox baseball."
Until it wasn't.
When Danny Farquhar arrived at Chicago's Guaranteed Rate Field on April 20, 2018, he was a journeyman middle reliever who'd pitched for four teams in seven years.
By the end of the day, he'd be thrust into the national spotlight.
In the sixth inning of a game against the Astros, Farquhar suffered a near-fatal rupture of an aneurysm in his brain and collapsed in the dugout.
Paramedics raced him to the emergency room -- as his teammates and family held their breath.
Would he return to the sport?
Would he return to his life?
Here's how Farquhar, 32, and those who know him best recall that fateful day -- and his journey back to the mound.
'Please, Danny, don't die on my watch' Danny Farquhar's wife, Lexie, calls waiting our her husband's brain surgery, "the single worst moment of my life."
Dylan Buell/Getty Images On the morning of April 20, Farquhar's wife, Lexie, dropped him off at the ballpark.
His mother, Beatriz, was visiting from Florida and had come along for the ride.
Lexie Farquhar (Farquhar's wife): He grabbed my booty in front of his mom, and he's never done that before.
And I remember thinking I'm going to remember this for the rest of my life and it was the best goodbye.
He just grabbed me and hugged me, kissed me, grabbed my booty and went on his way.
With Houston ace Justin Verlander on the hill against James Shields, it was a typical early-season game, on a cold Friday night with a first-pitch temperature of 51 degrees.
Herm Schneider (White Sox head trainer): Just another day in baseball.
Nothing different.
Nothing new.
Just another day in White Sox baseball.
Farquhar: They said that I was acting normal, watching the game normal.
The game was scoreless through three, but the Astros broke out with a five-run fourth off Shields.
When Shields ran into trouble again in the sixth, Farquhar got the call.
Schneider: It was a normal pitching change.
Just like a routine thing you don't think about.
It happens a thousand times a year, maybe more.
"I have zero memory of that day in the bullpen.
I can't recall watching the game, I can't recall anything about it."
Lexie: I remember being up in the suite talking to the wives.
It was just a really fun atmosphere in there.
We were all excited.
We were all chit-chatting.
I had the two boys [Landon, then 2 years old and Liam, then 4 months] asleep in the buggy.
Madison [then 6] was down in the playroom playing with her friends.
And it was kind of funny, there was about four of us who are all sharing stories about how we met our spouses and kind of like our love story on how we got to where we were.
And I was telling mine right about when Danny was pitching, which was kind of interesting ... it was kind of just one of those good moments.
Sometime during the sixth -- no one, including Farquhar, knows precisely when -- a blood vessel burst in his brain.
Still, he managed to pitch his way out of the inning.
Schneider: He walked in off the field like he always does, and everybody does.
Walks down the steps and he came over to me where I was sitting.
He said, "Herm, I've got a really bad headache."
I said, "How about a couple of Tylenol to see if I can calm it down for you?"
Farquhar: I have zero memory of that day in the bullpen.
I can't recall watching the game, I can't recall anything about it.
Schneider: And I waited a few minutes and he said, "Oh jeez, Herm.
It's really getting worse.
It's really kinda hurting."
I said, "Do you think you can keep pitching?"
'Cause he was gonna go back out and pitch.
And he said, "I don't think so."
He's like pulling on his hair, that his head is hurting that bad.
I said, "Danny, you OK?"
"My head is absolutely killing me.
I'm having the worst headache I could have."
Then all of a sudden he starts to vomit.
He starts to lean, to fall, because he's passed out.
Lucas Giolito (White Sox pitcher): We were sitting in the dugout when he fainted.
Thank God he was in the dugout and people were able to be there to help out.
It was scary.
Schneider: In my own head I said, "Please, Danny, don't die on my watch here."
'Cause I'm holding him, you know, and I'm making sure he's not gonna fall off the bench.
I was very concerned for him.
Lexie: I think my main concern was to not freak out because I didn't know what was wrong and all they had told me was he had passed out and he's in an ambulance on his way to the hospital.
'They were going to open my husband's skull' Farquhar was taken to Chicago's Rush University Medical Center where his White Sox jersey was cut off of his body as he was prepared for testing.
Doctors made the determination that there was bleeding in his brain; they knew it was coming from an aneurysm (a balloon-like bulge of a blood vessel, almost like a blister) that had burst.
Dr. Demetrius Lopes was the neurosurgeon on call.
Lexie: When I got to the hospital ...
I kind of felt their panic and I felt the staff and the nurses.
I felt their panic and it started to kind of get to me a little bit.
And I just wanted to see him and that gave me that anxious feeling, my heart racing, where it was just lead me to my husband.
Let me see him.
Let's figure out what's going on.
Dr. Demetrius Lopes (neurosurgeon): Forty percent of people may not survive the rupture of an aneurysm.
If it ruptures, you have potentially a very deadly situation.
I think 40 percent mortality is one side of the story.
The other one is many patients that have bleeding may not have a functional independent status after recovering from that bleeding, and that could be in the order of 60 to 70 percent of folks may have a disability afterward.
The odds are against you in many ways.
... We were really worried, in the first CAT scan that we did, there was a significantly increasing pressure in the brain.
Lopes performed a craniotomy -- removing a piece of Farquhar's skull -- and placed a clip on the compromised vessel in Farquhar's brain to prevent further bleeding.
"At that point, I had lost it.
I think that I had just signed off that they were going to open my husband's skull.
...
I wasn't certain of the next time I spoke to my kids what I'd be telling them.
At some point, those thoughts creep into your mind.
And that was the moment when they just all creeped in and it was the single worst moment of my life."
Danny Farquhar's wife, Lexie Lopes: This aneurysm was very small ... which is a really challenging situation because the aneurysm was also in a branch that we call perforators; these are very important blood vessels that supply, what turned out in the end, I found out later on, that that was his pitching arm.
So the area that controls his right side.
Lexie: And at that point, I had lost it.
I think that I had just signed off that they were going to open my husband's skull.
I couldn't even talk to my husband about it beforehand.
Liam was asleep ...
I lost it, absolutely bawled my eyes out, talked to Danny as if he was there ...
I wasn't certain of the next time I spoke to my kids what I'd be telling them.
At some point, those thoughts creep into your mind.
And that was the moment when they just all creeped in and it was the single worst moment of my life.
After the four-hour surgery, Farquhar was wheeled into the intensive care unit.
When he came to, what happened next surprised his doctors.
Lopes: I'll tell you when he came out of surgery he was still pretty sick.
He had bleeding of the head that just happened and an open brain surgery.
The first thing his dad asked him -- and remember, the arm, the pitching arm was the arm related to where the surgery was done -- "so show me a knuckleball grip," and he goes and does it and I'm like, yes!
Yes!
Farquhar: That's awesome that my dad had that perspective to give me a baseball analogy to come up with.
Lopes: It's really interesting, because most people would be like show me two fingers, or wiggle your toes.
Farquhar: So my last memory was walking out to the bullpen for the national anthem.
... My next memory was waking up in the ICU staring into the mirror.
My wife walked me to the bathroom and I just looked in the mirror and it looked like there was a softball on the left side of my head.
'When can I go and get my life back?'
In the days following Farquhar's aneurysm, his White Sox teammates hung his jersey from the bullpen at Guaranteed Rate Field.
Ron Vesely/MLB Photos via Getty Images Lexie: He asked pretty quickly, I mean when he still had tubes in his head, when he could go back, what the timeline looked like?
Farquhar: When I first started thinking about baseball was when I first woke up and I was like, what time is stretch, I need to be at the field.
You guys need to tell the team that I'm here in the hospital so they're not worried about me.
Lexie: He had never said, "I'll never be able to play."
Those words never came from him.
He was more focused on, "When can I go try?
When can I go and get my life back?"
The first step in returning to normal was getting back on the mound in Chicago for a ceremonial pitch, just 42 days after his life-threatening aneurysm.
He was surprised to see not just the hospital's medical staff but the entire team behind him on the mound.
Farquhar: Yeah, so I knew that my medical team was going to be behind me on the mound and my teammates surprised me and they went out there behind the mound too for the first pitch, and to have them have my back like that, it's something I'll never forget.
Rick Renteria (White Sox manager): It's miraculous when you think about it.
He's a very driven individual.
Farquhar would return that summer to his home in California with his wife and three children, to be reunited with his friend and offseason trainer, Garrett Nelson.
Could they reprogram his mind, retrain his body to become the pitcher he once was, and in so doing become the first MLB player to return from this kind of injury?
Farquhar: I don't want to look back in 20 years and be like, man, you still had it in you to play baseball.
And you chose not to.
Why?
So I'm going to go full-go until somebody won't give me a jersey.
I had that fire underneath me to get back to playing baseball.
And I didn't want any more time just lounging around, I wanted to start as soon as I could.
Garrett Nelson (friend and offseason trainer): At the end of the day, we're not getting back someone who needs to just walk and talk and do their thing.
We're trying to bring back a guy who has major league experience and wants to continue having major league experience.
That is what's so difficult.
Because the last thing we want to do is have them go out on that mound to face a batter and say: Am I ready for this?
While Farquhar focused on his rehab, Sohail Shahpar, his agent for the past decade, was focused on finding that next opportunity -- even if it meant keeping expectations in check.
All summer Farquhar had been operating with the expectation of returning to Chicago the next year.
But when the White Sox took him off their major league roster in October, Farquhar found himself in free agency.
Sohail Shahpar (Farquhar's agent): I've had players deal with injuries basically on every kind of body part, whether it's the shoulder, the collarbone, the hip, the elbow, the knee, the foot -- you name it, I've had to deal with it.
This injury was something different and I think for a lot of people, not just myself, but a lot of people in the baseball industry in general had never really dealt with an injury like this.
Farquhar: The White Sox pulled at my heart a little bit.
Just because it was everything that I had been through and everybody knew me there.
It was definitely a place that I love, but we sat down and we talked about it and maybe seeing everybody and remembering all the tough times was going to make things more difficult.
That's the outlook me and my wife have now, and maybe turning a new leaf is what's best for me.
New organization and fresh start as opposed to going back to where I had my aneurysm and where it all started.
Shahpar: I would say the main concern from these teams was the risk of it happening again.
I would say none, if not few, had a lot of experience ever dealing with an aneurysm.
I would think it was more the unknown that became the biggest issue and the biggest risk.
And no team really came out and said, "This is what we're afraid of," but I think reading between the lines, the biggest concern of many teams was, God forbid this happens again, and what our liability would be.
It sounds morbid, but what our liability would be if you're on the mound again and this happens one more time.
'Breathe, man.
Breathe.
Just throw strikes and breathe.'
Farquhar signed a minor league deal with the Yankees in January, where he pitched this spring wearing a protective helmet.
AP Photo/Lynne Sladky Weeks turned into months as his intensive rehab progressed.
After his agent discussed his future with a number of teams, the New York Yankees offered a Farquhar a minor league deal, with an invitation to major league spring training.
He'd have a shot to compete for a job.
Before he left, he looked back at the jersey he wore the last day he pitched.
Farquhar: I haven't seen this in seven or eight months.
It's pretty emotional because it brings me back to the day.
And it's tough.
I was talking to my wife a little bit and I was like, "This shows that I'm a fighter and I'll get through whatever I need to, to be a survivor.
(Farquhar wells up.)
It makes me extraordinarily satisfied that somebody else believes in me and it's not just me and not just my family.
Now in Tampa, Farquhar was fitted with a special protective helmet and eased into the routine.
First, there was a bullpen session.
Then two live sessions with a batter, a momentous occasion for Farquhar, who hadn't faced live bats in 10 months.
Farquhar: I was saying out loud to breathe.
I'm like, breathe.
Breathe, man.
Breathe.
Just throw strikes and breathe.
But I could feel my heart racing.
It was exciting.
It was an awesome feeling.
And to have all the Yankee coaches there support me and watch me, it was pretty incredible.
"I've never been high-fived so much giving up five runs in my career."
Aaron Boone (Yankees manager): It's important to understand that this guy can pitch.
You know he'll certainly have some opportunities and I think the first thing for him is getting through spring training and getting through that everyday grind of being a big league pitcher.
Lopes: I think he is, I mean, from a scale from zero to 10, he was 100.
It was a fantastic recovery.
I couldn't ask anything better than that.
... Our personal attitude toward things or positive energy to recover and go back -- I think his drive to do that is definitely a key part of him returning in such a short period of time.
Maybe the idea is not necessarily to go back to who you were before, but can you be better or can you transform yourself into the new you.
A year ago, Farquhar nearly lost his life on a big league mound; 316 days later, against exceptional odds, he returned.
On March 2, he made a relief appearance -- his first major league outing in 10 months -- against the Pirates in Bradenton, Florida.
While he retired just one of the six batters he faced, and was saddled with the loss, Farquhar had won a much bigger victory.
Farquhar: I've never been high-fived so much giving up five runs in my career.
Boone: The fact that he's on the mound and gotten to this point is pretty awesome.
I found myself a little more emotional than I even thought.
Even though it didn't go great, I think he really appreciated how special it was for him to be back on a mound.
Farquhar: I felt great out there.
Obviously, the results weren't great but I call it a good day.
I felt like a baseball player, again.
Shahpar: Even if he spends the entire year in Triple-A [Farquhar is currently in extended spring training with the Yankees], I don't see how you can't see that as a win for Danny.
And I think that it's only going to propel him to work harder to get back to the major leagues in 2020.
Farquhar: There's a lot of factors for the reason why I'm still here.
So it is my bonus time and I'm going to enjoy every second of it.
Lexie: We thought about, "Well, what if you can only make it the minor leagues?
Is that going to feel enough?
Is that going to be enough?"
And I remember him saying, "I just wanna remember my last outing as a major leaguer.
I don't want to not know it."
And you think about somebody who's worked their whole life since they were 5 years old for this dream.
You don't want your dream cut off without your permission or without you knowing that it got cut off.
And so, we're just kind of like, "OK, let's get you back out there at least for one more inning.
I know you'll do more, but you will remember pitching again."
It's Monday.
For fantasy baseball managers, this means a crucial weekly exercise is about to take place, where you take stock of your roster, see where it might be lacking and then scour the waiver wire in the hopes that better options lie within.
And, thankfully, without a ridiculously early Boston affair -- or any afternoon game, for that matter -- you've actually got a few moments to think about your decisions before your lineups lock.
Most teams have played around 20 games thus far.
That's still not the largest sample size in the world, but with most starting rotations now heading toward their fifth time around (if they're not already there), the statistics are starting to tell a story for 2019.
It's not a finished story by any means, so while Chris Sale and his 0-4 record, 8.50 ERA and 1.56 WHIP shouldn't be cause for cutting the ace, neither should it mean you can simply dismiss his sad start to the season.
Every pitcher needs to be judged on his own merits, but Sale has certainly earned some extra rope before getting thrown overboard, thanks to seven consecutive seasons with a top-six finish in Cy Young voting.
A disappointing April has been a bit of an epidemic across the league thus far, with Gerrit Cole, Corey Kluber, Noah Syndergaard and Aaron Nola just a few of the other big-name starting pitchers with ERAs over 5.00.
Yet, even when you combine these unfortunate outliers with some of the offensive superlatives -- Christian Yelich, Cody Bellinger, Khris Davis, Tim Anderson, Anthony Rendon, just to name a few -- the truth is that pitching is not nearly as dire as the focus on these top stories may make it seem.
The leaguewide ERA is only slightly higher thus far (4.34) than for all of 2018 (4.14), and the league-average hitter is actually doing slightly worse in 2019 (.245 versus .248).
In other words, there's good pitching to be found out there.
As always, my particular method of identifying which pitchers to consider for points leagues can be simplified down to a very easy-to-remember single number.
That number is seven.
Once the games get rolling, the number of starting pitchers who qualify for what I call the "Rule of 7" tends to settle in the neighborhood of 20 to 25 names at any given time.
That's a fairly exclusive club, despite there being only a few simple requirements: All starters in the club must have an ERA of 3.50 or less and a K/BB rate of 3.50 or more for the season.
Current membership (minimum two starts) sits at just 23 names -- and two of those (Mike Clevinger, Matt Moore) have taken themselves out of fantasy consideration due to injury.
What makes the list so interesting right now is its lack of expected names.
Last season's final Rule of 7 club included the likes of Max Scherzer, Jacob deGrom and Clayton Kershaw, in addition to all the 5.00-plus ERA guys mentioned above.
Not one of those pitchers is allowed past the bouncer right now.
Today's list includes the following pitchers, all currently rostered in 90 percent of ESPN leagues or more: Justin Verlander, Blake Snell, Patrick Corbin, Jose Berrios, James Paxton, German Marquez, Masahiro Tanaka, Tyler Glasnow, Cole Hamels and Shane Bieber.
Dropping down a bit, in the 80 to 90 percent range, are Jose Quintana and Joe Musgrove.
Three more names sit between 70 and 80 percent and should either be gobbled up if they're available in your leagues, or conversely, if you're not a believer, can be sold high before they regress: Hyun-Jin Ryu, Matthew Boyd and Kevin Gausman.
After that, we have just six names left, and these might take a little more convincing for fantasy managers to buy in.
Two of them are members of the Rays "opener" squad, so your mileage may vary with Yonny Chirinos and Ryne Stanek.
Still, the stats have been there thus far.
As for those of you looking simply to ride a hot hand in a streaming capacity, this would be a good time to focus your free-agent bids on the likes of Caleb Smith, Sonny Gray, Jordan Lyles and Vince Velasquez.
Top 300 rest-of-season rankings The following list reflects my rankings for points leagues from this point forward.
Note that this is different from a ranking of how each player has played thus far in 2019.
For a ranking of performance to date, check out the ESPN Player Rater.
Maurizio Sarri's men failed to capitalise on a weekend which saw all of their top-four rivals lose Chelsea spurned a glorious chance to go third in the Premier League after they were held to a 2-2 draw by Burnley.
Four goals inside the opening 24 minutes set the tone for a pulsating encounter, but the Blues were unable to find a winner which wouldve provided a huge boost to their top-four hopes.
2 Burnley celebrate their second goal Two quickfire goals from NGolo Kante and Gonzalo Higuain quickly cancelled out Jeff Hendricks stunning opener, before Ashley Barnes ghosted in to draw Burnley level.
The hosts bossed possession and pressed relentlessly for the remainder of the game, however they failed to seriously test Tom Heaton.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend On a weekend which saw Tottenham, Arsenal and Manchester United lose Chelsea failed to capitalise.
They move a point above the Gunners, who have played a game less, and level with third-place Spurs, who also have a game in hand.
Burnley, meanwhile, are all-but safe nine points clear of Cardiff with a superior goal difference and three games left to play.
Hendricks sweet volley handed Burnley the lead against the run of play, Chelsea failing to clear a corner.
But minutes later, Loftus-Cheek outmuscled Westwood, Hazard bamboozled Matthew Lowton and then Kante drilled home the leveller.
2 Higuain scored a screamer Then Higuain spun in the area, exchanged passes with Cesar Azpilicueta and rifled into the roof of the net.
Chelsea continued to press, Loftus-Cheek, Hazard and Higuain all off target.
But amid that general dominance the Blues switched off at another set-piece, and were duly punished again.
This time Chris Wood nodded a free-kick across goal and Barnes finished well on the slide.
Chelsea turned around frustrated and intent on finally taking control, only for Higuain to undercook an effort after Pedros square ball.
And Chelsea escaped unscathed when Wood dallied to waste a genuine scoring chance, failing to punish Jorginhos errant pass.
Emerson Palmieri fired wide from 20 yards as Chelsea pressed, ignoring Hazard in space on the overlap.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 Hazard outwitted Lowton again but to no avail, before Azpilicueta saw a low effort rebuffed by Tom Heaton.
And when the Blues were reduced to a 25-yard pot-shot from Luiz, Sarri called France World Cup-winner Olivier Giroud off the bench for the last 15 minutes.
The change energised the Blues fans, but left Higuain throwing drinks bottles around the dugout, the 31-year-old petulantly venting frustrations on his withdrawal.
Loftus-Cheek directed Mateo Kovacics teasing ball across the face of goal but Giroud could not stretch for the finish.
The Whites are three points off Sheffield United with two games remaining after back-to-back defeats Leeds boss Marcelo Bielsa admitted his sides automatic promotion chances look slim after their damaging 2-0 defeat at Brentford.
Neal Maupay put Brentford ahead on the stroke of half-time when he curled a stunning 25-yard drive past Leeds keeper Kiko Casilla and Sergi Canos put the game beyond doubt just after the hour mark when he finished off a slick four-man move.
1 Bielsa reflected on Leeds slim automatic promotion hopes The result leaves Leeds three points behind second-placed Sheffield United and with an inferior goal difference, with just two matches remaining.
Bielsa said: I am very sad with todays loss and its going to be very difficult but as long as maths say something we will follow this.
But we know our opportunity is now less.
The Argentinian shook every one of his players hands at the end of the pivotal game because we all saw that our possibility to finish first and second were decreasing and the players felt that too.
I thought they deserved that for all the effort they made.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend He refused to be drawn on Patrick Bamfords first-half penalty claim but conceded Leeds automatic promotion chances have faded because of their failure to take their chances.
He continued: Todays game was like many we have played this year.
We didnt take advantage of the positive moments where we could have made a difference.
At the beginning of the first and second half we could have scored.
The moments we dominated less they dominated us and scored.
During the second half when we were dominating and we thought the draw was coming, they scored their second goal.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 They have good offensive players but we need to look at why we have to have twice as many chances to score as our opponent.
If we had normal efficiency we would have 10 or 12 points more than we have but thats not the case so now we have to put all our energy in the options we still have.
There is sadness linked to the fact that we could have changed small things but if we want to say why we dont have 10 points more you just have to take a look at how many chances to score we need compared to other teams to score against us.
The German produced a defensive horror show during the Gunners' defeat to Crystal Palace Jamie Carragher has launched a scathing attack on Arsenal defender Shkodran Mustafi after the Germans woeful performance against Crystal Palace on Sunday.
Mustafi was responsible for two of Palaces three goals, which proved costly as the Gunners slipped to a 3-2 defeat and lost ground in their race to finish in the top four.
1 Mustafi was at fault for Wilfried Zahas goal Its not the first time the 27-year-olds defending has come under scrutiny and Carragher says the horror show was hardly surprising.
I wasnt surprised by this, he told Sky Sports.
Hes been a mess since he joined the club really and this is another example of it.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend Hes at fault for the second goal as well.
[Unai] Emery made changes and I can totally understand it.
Something has to give in the squad.
In terms of the firepower in the team you still expected them to win.
I think its a massive blow for Arsenals top-four chances.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 Gunners boss Unai Emery, however, refused to criticise the 30million man.
After the defeat, he told talkSPORT: Im going to protect every player because they worked and tried to do their best possible.
I think we can speak about them all generally and not focus on individual issues.
The academy graduate was named in the starting XI to face the Clarets at Stamford Bridge Callum Hudson-Odoi starts for the fourth consecutive Premier League game as Chelsea welcome Burnley to Stamford Bridge on Monday night.
The 18-year-old is joined in Maurizio Sarris starting XI by fellow academy graduate Ruben Loftus-Cheek, who also starts his fourth league game in a row.
1 Hudson-Odoi starts yet again Hudson-Odoi had to wait patiently for his full league debut, which didnt come until early April against Brighton.
But since then, the forward has established himself as the clubs first choice on the right wing, ahead of Willian and Pedro, both of whom have been used in the Europa League instead.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend There is also a start for Andreas Christensen, who replaces the injured Antonio Rudiger in defence.
Gonzalo Higuain, who has struggled since arriving on loan from Juventus in January, starts up front instead of Olivier Giroud.
For the visitors, Phil Bardsley misses out after failing a late fitness test.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 Confirmed line-ups Chelsea: Arrizabalaga, Azpilicueta, Christensen, Luiz, Emerson Palmieri, Kante, Jorginho, Loftus-Cheek, Hudson-Odoi, Higuain, Hazard.
Subs: Barkley, Pedro, Caballero, Kovacic, Giroud, Zappacosta, Cahill.
Burnley: Heaton, Lowton, Tarkowski, Mee, Taylor, Hendrick, Westwood, Cork, McNeil, Barnes, Wood.
Subs: Gudmundsson, Brady, Gibson, Hart, Ward, Vydra, Long.
The Whites slipped to a second consecutive defeat, leaving them three points off automatic promotion with two games left Leeds were dealt a potentially fatal blow in their bid for automatic promotion as they crumbled to a 2-0 defeat at Brentford.
Neal Maupay and Sergi Canos struck either side of half-time to leave Marcelo Bielsas men in need of a minor miracle to finish in the top two.
1 Maupay opened the scoring They now trail second-place Sheffield United by three points with a significantly inferior goal difference and just two games remaining.
Leeds began the Bank Holiday weekend in second with a three-point cushion of their own and their collapse will feel all-too familiar for the clubs supporters.
Todays defeat follows the shocking loss to Wigan at Elland Road, after the struggling Latics came from a goal down to win with ten men.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend Despite being denied a blatant penalty early in the first-half when Julian Jeanvier clattered into Patrick Bamford, Leeds can have few complaints about the outcome at Griffin Park.
Maupay was clinical at the end of the first-half after the visitors had spurned a host of promising opportunities.
The Bees top scorer latched onto a fantastic through-ball from Canos before expertly slotting beyond Kiko Casilla.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 Maupay then turned provider for the influential Canos, who provided a deft touch at the end of an incisive Brentford move.
Leeds pressed, but in truth Brentford looked more likely to score the next goal as the visitors left themselves vulnerable to the counter attack.
Chants of Leeds are falling apart again rang around Griffin Park, which unfortunately summed things up quite accurately.
Marcelo Bielsa's men simply must beat the Bees to keep pace with Sheffield United in the race for automatic promotion Leeds were left bewildered when referee Keith Stroud waved away a seemingly-blatant penalty during their must-win clash with Brentford.
The Whites are looking to close the three-point gap to second-place Sheffield United, who beat Hull 3-0 earlier in the day.
1 Bamford was wiped out early in the game And following a bright start, they looked certain to be given a golden opportunity from the spot after Julian Jeanvier clattered into Leeds striker Patrick Bamford.
But despite a clear, unobstructed view of the incident Stroud was not interested and waved away Bamfords appeal.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend It could prove a pivotal moment in the clubs bid to seal automatic promotion to the Premier League and Neal Maupay rubbed salt into the wounds by putting Brentford in front against the run of play just before half-time.
Chants of Leeds are falling apart again rang around Griffin Park during the interval and some fans couldnt help but suggest the penalty incident summarised the clubs fortunes.
Here are the best tweets: Leeds have just had the most stonewall penalty in history turned down.
Andy Ha (@AndyHa_) April 22, 2019 Leeds playing against 12 men again definite penalty #lufc Martin Garrity (@mjgarrity72) April 22, 2019 When you see a referee trending on twitter you know there's been a shocker.
Not sure how Leeds weren't given a penalty CLEAR foul on Bamford.
John Bennett (@JohnBennettBBC) April 22, 2019 Wow how did Leeds not get a penalty there Matt Le Tissier (@mattletiss7) April 22, 2019 Keith Stroud has to publicly explain why he didnt give Leeds a penalty.
He had a perfect view and it was as blatant as you can get.
It would be funny if it didnt have such disastrous consequences.
#lufc David Kevin Williams (@DaveKWilliams) April 22, 2019 How is that not a penalty?!
Absolute shocker from Keith Stroud.
#Leeds #EFL Tom Carr (@ItsMeTomC) April 22, 2019 Q How is that not a penalty?
A it's Leeds MLB (@MarkBilly) April 22, 2019 Clear cut penalty denied , many 1 on 1s missed, chances going begging, dominating possession, should be 3 up, could it get any more leeds?
#lufc olly clarke (@ollyclarke4) April 22, 2019 Stone wall, penalty.
Its leeds, no wonder it wasn't given.
Alan Thompson (@thombo1987) April 22, 2019
The draw was enough after Mansfield's defeat at Oldham Lincoln clinched the League Two title with a goalless home draw against Tranmere on Easter Sunday.
The Imps threw everything at Rovers, whose goalkeeper Scott Davies denied Bruno Andrade twice while Jake Caprice produced a goalline clearance from a Matt Rhead header.
1 Lincoln City manager Danny Cowley has led the Imps to the League Two title The stalemate was enough, however, as Mansfields defeat at Oldham left the Stags nine points behind Danny Cowleys team with just two matches remaining.
The point also secured a play-off spot for Tranmere.
Mansfield lost 3-2 at Boundary Park, where Mohamed Maouche scored in between Gevaro Nepomucenos double for the Latics.
Tyler Walker and Neal Bishop replied for the Stags, who twice found themselves two goals behind.
Bury moved above Mansfield into second place with a 3-1 home win against Northampton, who led through Andy Williams strike.
Goals from Chris Stokes, Danny Mayor and Nicky Maynard completed the turnaround for the Shakers.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend MK Dons, who host Mansfield in the final game of the season, missed the chance to move into the automatic promotion places after they had to settle for a 1-1 home draw with Port Vale.
Kieran Agard saw a first-half penalty saved and Tom Conlon put Vale in front early in the second half.
However, David Wheeler quickly equalised.
Forest Green also made sure of a play-off spot with a 2-1 home win against Cambridge.
Gavin Gunning and Christian Doidge scored either side of Paul Lewis equalising goal for United.
Exeter stay in the final play-off place after coming from behind to draw 1-1 at Stevenage, who are one of the teams trying to chase them down.
Kurtis Guthrie put Boro ahead but Ryan Bowman levelled things up before the break.
Colchester remain in the hunt for a top-seven spot despite drawing 1-1 at relegation fighting Yeovil.
Jake Gray put the Glovers in front and the visitors then had goalkeeper Dillion Barnes sent off but managed an equaliser through Tom Eastman.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Brentford vs Leeds United (Monday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 Yeovil remain in the relegation places and two points behind Macclesfield after the Silkmens goalless draw with Newport, while Notts County stay bottom of the table and two points adrift of safety after a 1-1 draw at Crawley.
Craig Mackail-Smith scored to give the Magpies an early lead but Ashley Nathaniel-George equalised midway through the first half.
Notts County survived a red card for Ben Barclay after 55 minutes to earn a point.
Joe Graysons injury time goal gave Grimsby a 1-0 win against Carlisle at Blundell Park while Morecambe were 4-0 winners against Cheltenham.
Aaron Collins missed a 21st-minute penalty for the Shrimps but he made amends by completing the scoring late on after goals from Vadaine Oliver, Kevin Ellison and Sam Lavelle.
Chris Porter scored twice in Crewes 2-1 win at Swindon, who pulled a goal back courtesy of Michael Doughtys penalty.
The 26-year-old had a wife and two children, but he was brutally murdered in Belem, Brazil Tragedy struck on on Monday morning when former UFC welterweight Rodrigo de Lima was killed in a hit and run attack in his native Brazil.
UFC welterweight Michel Prazeres, a longtime friend and teammate of Monstro, told MMA Fighting that the 26-year-old fighter was inside a car with a few friends when he started arguing with an Uber driver.
1 Rodrigo de Lima during his UFC days Prazeres said the driver stopped the car and then two men both got out to continue their argument.
The driver got back in his car, drove away, but then came back and hit de Lima from behind.
Multiple local reports in Belem, Brazil have corroborated Prazeres version of events and it is believed the police are searching for the suspect.
Tragically, de Lima was married with two children.
LATEST MMA NEWS in a cell Darren Till arrested in Tenerife for trashing hotel and stealing a taxi guess who's back?
Conor McGregor returns to ring in hometown show against local fighter Monstro (9-3-1) fought twice in the UFC between 2014 and 2015, losing both outings to Neil Magny and Efrain Escudero.
His last bout took place 10 months ago in June 2018, submitting Luiz Fabiano in the co-main event of Shooto Brazil 85.
Dean Ambrose announced he would be leaving the WWE in late January and it appears the Lunatic Fringe has stayed true to this word Dean Ambrose has been leaving the WWE since late January, but now the end is officially upon us.
The will-he, wont-he narrative seems to have come to an end and now we know that Ambrose has had his last match in WWE.
1 Dean Ambrose, Seth Rollins and Roman Reigns as The Shield one last time The Shield had their last match in WWE on Sunday evening and the WWE aired a special on it so the fans could enjoy the trio once last time for now.
Rumours suggest that Ambrose will sit in retirement for a few years before deciding whether he will return to the WWE or not and he has no plans to sign with All Elite Wrestling.
The Shield sat down to do one last interview with Michael Cole before their final match and it was mostly full of nostalgia and feel-good stories.
That was until the end.
Check out Ambroses tirade where he says this time, the million dollar man [Vince McMahon] didnt get what he wanted.
I cant be bought.
"This time the million dollar man didn't get what he wanted, because I can't be bought."
Dean Ambrose makes an emphatic exit from WWE: https://t.co/d88zPmDKWd pic.twitter.com/ApAJdnjSK8 Sky Sports WWE (@SkySportsWWE) April 22, 2019 Whether thats the story Ambrose is going with as part of an angle or thats really what happened it seems there is an element of truth to the story.
WWE reportedly made several offers to Ambrose to convince him to stay and they were unable to do so.
Whatever Ambrose wants to do next, its not about money.
The Canaries could've secured promotion today if they beat Stoke and Leeds failed to win at Brentford later this evening Championship leaders Norwich missed the opportunity to go within touching distance of promotion after being held to a 2-2 draw at Stoke on Easter Monday.
The Canaries wouldve sealed their return to the Premier League if they won and Leeds failed to beat at Brentford later this evening and twice they went in front at the Bet365 Stadium.
2 Norwich were held by Stoke Norwich forward Onel Hernandezs fierce first-half strike was cancelled out by Ashley Williams header shortly after the break.
Talisman Teemu Pukki restored Norwichs lead, only for Tom Edwards to equalise three minutes later as the visitors slipped to a fourth successive draw.
Sheffield United did pile the pressure on third-place Leeds with a comfortable 3-0 victory at Hull.
The Blades have a three-point cushion in the second automatic promotion place thanks to three first-half goals, including a brace from David McGoldrick and left-back Enda Stevens second goal in as many games.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend Leeds can go level on points with victory over the Bees but Sheffield United would remain second with a significantly superior goal difference.
Play-off hopefuls Middlesbrough and Bristol City both suffered convincing away defeats, to Nottingham Forest and Sheffield Wednesday respectively and Derby left it late to capitalise.
The Rams leapfrog Boro and City into sixth after two stoppage-time goals from Harry Wilson gave them a them a dramatic 2-0 victory at home to QPR.
Elsewhere on an action-packed Bank Holiday Monday in the second-tier, Wigan secured their safety in the division with a 2-0 victory over Preston.
2 Daniel Farke and Norwich will not be promoted today After their heroics at Leeds on Saturday, coming from behind with ten men to snatch victory, the Latics secured a second consecutive win thanks to Leon Clarkes early strike and Lee Evans deflected effort.
Wigan were given a helping hand by Birmingham, who came from a goal down at Rotherham to win 3-1 and heap misery on the Millers.
Rotherham remain three points adrift of Millwall, who have played a game less, after Jacques Maghoma and Jota turned the game following Matt Crooks opener, before Kerim Mrabti added a late third.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2...
Hull vs Sheffield United (Monday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 Brentford vs Leeds United (Monday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 Reading all-but secured their safety in the division with a goalless draw at home to promotion-chasing West Brom, who booked their place in the play-offs.
The point leaves the Royals six-points clear of Rotherham with two games left to play and a far superior goal difference.
And in the days two dead-rubbers, relegated Ipswich were beaten 1-0 at home to Swansea, while League One-bound Bolton lost 2-0 at Blackburn.
The Gunners' hopes of a top-four finish were dented by a 3-2 defeat at home to Crystal Palace on Sunday Ray Parlour believes the Arsenal squad needs as big a squad makeover as Manchester United this summer.
The lack of depth in the Gunners squad was highlighted in Sundays surprise 3-2 defeat to Crystal Palace at the Emirates Stadium.
3 Arsenal were punished for a series of mistakes against Palace Unai Emery opted to make SIX changes to the team that beat Napoli during the week to seal their place in the Europa League semi-finals, including swapping out his entire defensive line, and it backfired badly.
Arsenal were booed off at half-time as they trailed 1-0 from Christian Bentekes first goal in a year, but it went from bad to worse after the break as they conceded two more goals, largely thanks to a defensive horror show from Shkodran Mustafi.
The Gunners rallied with goals from Mesut Ozil and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, but it was not enough to turn around the game.
3 Wilfried Zaha was at his best against Arsenal And club legend Parlour believes the result shows just how much work Emery has to do this summer when the transfer window reopens.
Speaking on Mondays Alan Brazil Sports Breakfast, the former midfielder said: This was always going to be a big test for Emery this season.
I said at the start of the season if they get fourth place it would be a brilliant season for Arsenal.
Hes still finding out his squad and the transfer window is going to be very interesting to see what he does, whether he moves any players out and brings more in.
As much as Manchester United need a big clear out, Arsenal probably do as well.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more The defeat to Palace ended a run of ten straight league home wins for Arsenal.
But the Romford Pele refused to blame Emery for his much-changed squad, and insisted the manager should be praised for his first season in charge of the north London side.
After seeing Manchester United and Spurs lose, it was a really good opportunity at home, he added.
Arsenal have had a great record at the Emirates this year they have only lost to Manchester City in the top six, have drawn with Liverpool and haven beat Man United, Spurs and Chelsea.
3 Ray Parlour insists Unai Emery deserves credit for what hes achieved in his first season at Arsenal So you would have fancied them, I didnt see five goals in the game.
The team selection was very strange.
Theyd just come off the Napoli win and youre thinking, lets kick on now, theres only four games left, play your strongest team, but he didnt.
There were a few mistakes from the manager, but you cant knock him because hes done a wonderful job so far.
The UFC welterweight has been back in training after his last loss at UFC London, but now he is in trouble with the law Darren Till has been back in training recently following his first loss in the UFC.
However, it seems like going on a night out with Till might be at the top or very bottom of some fans wishlist.
2 Masvidal was coming off the back of a knockout win over Darren Till Till was arrested in the Costa Adeje area of Tenerife last night among a group of men for trashing a hotel and then hijacking a taxi.
The 26-year-old and others were said to have been chucked out of a lodging complex after they broke furniture and emptied extinguishers, as reported by Tenerife daily El Dia.
After being expelled from their initial hotel, they allegedly went to another hotel in the upper area of El Duque, but they were refused.
At this point, Till and his friends ordered a taxi and when the driver was putting their bags in his boot, two individuals one of which was Till took control of the car and sped off towards La Caleta.
2 Darren Till in action in the UFC Thats where the men were met by police and apprehended in the early hours of Monday morning.
Till, known as the Gorilla, competes in the welterweight division of the UFC and is coming off a surprise knockout loss to Jorge Masvidal at UFC London back in February.
Till and boasts a career record of 17-2-1.
All you need to know to tune into the action from Griffin Park Leeds United face a crucial clash with Brentford on Monday evening with LIVE commentary of the action on talkSPORT.
The Whites relinquished second place in the Championship to Sheffield United at the weekend after suffering a shock defeat at home to Wigan Athletic.
2 Pablo Hernandez of Leeds United stands dejected following the defeat to Wigan Brentford boast a formidable record at home against Leeds, having not been beaten by them at Griffin Park in nine matches (W6 D3 L0) since a 1-2 reverse in August 1950.
The teams played out a 1-1 draw in their last league meeting at Elland Road in October, with Pontus Jansson heading home a late equaliser after Neal Maupays penalty had put the Bees ahead.
Brentford vs Leeds United: How to listen Full commentary will be live on talkSPORT, with our coverage getting under way from 5pm.
Alex Crook and David Connolly will be on commentary duty.
To tune in to the action click here for the live stream or click the radio player below.
You can also listen through the talkSPORT App, on DAB Digital Radio or on MW 1053 or 1089.
For more information about how to listen LIVE on talkSPORT click here.
Brentford vs Leeds United: Kick off time The Championship clash will get under way at 5.15pm on Monday, April 22.
2 Leeds have a woeful record at Griffin Park Brentford vs Leeds United: Team news Henrik Dalsgaard misses out for Brentford after being sent off against Millwall on Good Friday.
Rico Henry is one of three changes to the side which drew 1-1 with Millwall on Friday, while Julian Jeanvier and Romaine Sawyers also return to the starting XI.
Leeds make two changes from the team beaten by Wigan, as Liam Cooper returns from injury in place of Gaetano Berardi and Adam Forshaw replaces Kalvin Phillips.
Gjanni Alioski continues at left-back in place of Barry Douglas, who is out until next season.
Brentford: Daniels, Henry, Bech Sorensen, Konsa, Jeanvier, Odubajo, Sawyers, Mokotjo, Canos, Watkins, Maupay.
Subs: Gunnarsson, Oksanen, Marcondes, Ogbene, Racic, Forss, Dasilva.
Leeds: Casilla, Alioski, Cooper, Jansson, Ayling, Forshaw, Klich, Roberts, Harrison, Hernandez, Bamford.
Subs: Peacock-Farrell, Phillips, Roofe, Dallas, Berardi, Shackleton, Clarke.
The Lille forward is widely expected to leave France this summer - with several top European clubs battling for his signature Liverpool are now in control of the race to sign Lilles highly-rated forward Nicolas Pepe, reports claim.
The Reds have joined Premier League rivals Arsenal, Manchester United and Everton in the hunt for the 23-year-old, who has emerged as one of Ligue 1s most exciting talents.
1 Nicolas Pepe has been linked with a move to the Premier League And according to Le10 Sport, Liverpool have made a formal enquiry about the possibility of signing the Ivorian this summer which puts them a step ahead of the chasing pack.
Pepe has enjoyed a spectacular breakthrough season at the Stade Pierre Mauroy, netting 19 times and providing 11 assists in 32 games.
LATEST TRANSFER NEWS MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend concerns Paul Pogba's wage demands 'could block' potential Real Madrid switch gossip Liverpool and Arsenal 'ready to launch bids' for in-demand Hazard gossip Chelsea want 'perfect replacement' Coutinho if Eden Hazard leaves this summer overhaul How Man United could line-up with targets next season, including Felix and Pepe MORE FIREPOWER Sam Allardyce outlines what Everton need to become top six club PAPER TALK Liverpool and Arsenal join race for Hazard, Chelsea eye Coutinho, Pogba latest NEXT MESSI Man City hope to sign exciting Argentine midfielder who turns 18 on Friday Only Paris Saint-Germain superstar Kylian Mbappe has scored more goals in Ligue 1 this term.
Lille look set to finish second in the French top-flight, thanks largely to the form of Pepe, and the club are already resigned to the prospect of losing him this summer.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 Club president Gerard Lopez recently told Telefoot: Four or five players will be leaving this summer.
All clubs are forced to balance their accounts except perhaps one.
I would say yes, it is sure he [Pepe] will leave.
He enters a price range that can no longer be paid.
There is a career choice to make for him, I think he will have the choice.
The full-back has now accumulated an astonishing 42 trophies throughout his 20 year career in the game Dani Alves has become the most successful footballer in history following Paris Saint-Germains title triumph on Sunday evening.
The Brazilian, 36, has now accumulated an astonishing 42 trophies in his 20-year strong career.
1 Alves won his 42nd trophy on the weekend as PSG were crowned champions again And he achieved the feat before his side had even kicked a ball, as Lille were held to a goalless draw by Toulouse meaning Thomas Tuchels side were crowned Ligue 1 champs with six games remaining.
Alves now has more silverware than Egyptian legend Hossam Hassan, who dominated the game in his native country with Ahly SC and Zamalek, winning 41 honours.
Dani Alves' extraordinary success Bahia: 2001-02 Campeonato Baiano 2001 Copa do Nordeste (2) 2001, 2002 Sevilla: 2002-08 Copa del Rey 2006-07 Supercopa de Espana 2007 Uefa Cup (2) 2005-06, 2006-07 Uefa Super Cup 2006 Barcelona: 2008-16 La Liga (6) 200809, 200910, 201011, 201213, 201415, 201516 Copa del Rey (4) 200809, 201112, 201415, 201516 Supercopa de Espana (4) 2009, 2010, 2011, 2013 Champions League (3) 200809, 201011, 201415 Uefa Super Cup (3) 2009, 2011, 2015 Fifa Club World Cup (3) 2009, 2011, 2015 Juventus: 2016-17 Serie A 2016-17 Coppa Italia 2016-17 PSG: 2017-present Trophee des Champions 2017 Coupe de la Lige 2017-18 Coupe de France 2017-18 Ligue 1 (2) 2017/18, 2018/19 Brazil: 2006-present Copa America 2007 Confederations Cup (2) 2009, 2013 His ex-team-mate Andres Iniesta is also sitting pretty in third in the standings, having won 37 trophies level with another Egyptian, Ibrahim Hassan and former PSG star Maxwell.
But who else has made list of the most decorated players of all time?
Scroll down for a look of the list in full below LATEST FOOTBALL STORIES moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target concerns Paul Pogba's wage demands 'could block' potential Real Madrid switch 5.
Vitor Bala (Portugal) 35 trophies 5.
Ryan Giggs (Wales) 35 trophies 5.
Essam El-Hadary (Egypt) 35 trophies 4.
Oleksandr Shoovkovskly (Ukraine) 36 trophies 4.
Wael Gomaa (Egypt) 36 trophies 3.
Ibrahim Hassan (Egypt) 37 trophies 3.
Maxwell (Brazil) 37 trophies 3.
Andres Iniesta (Spain) 37 trophies 2.
Hossam Hassan (Egypt) 41 trophies 1.
Dani Alves (Brazil) 42 trophies
Glenn McCrory told talkSPORT that while he respects Khan and all he has achieved, it might be time for him to hang up his gloves The boxing world is still talking about the bizarre way Amir Khan fell to Terence Crawford at Madison Square Garden in New York on Saturday.
Khan would retire in the fifth round after suffering a low blow from the WBO welterweight champion, a blow Khan claimed seized his legs and gave him severe stomach pains.
3 Amir Khan was well beaten by Terence Crawford in New York The 32-year-old opted against utilising the allowed five-minute break after taking a low blow and instead his corner called it a night.
Speaking on the Alan Brazil Breakfast Show, Glenn McCrory told talkSPORT that he felt Khan wanted out of the fight and took his opportunity.
Its a difficult one because everything happens so fast, McCrory said.
When a punch of any sort that is going to put you out of the game and ah, its hurting really bad the fact of the matter is, Amir was starting to take a beating.
3 Glen McCrory doing his punditry duties for Sky Sports Thats the reality of it, and I think Amir, like any fighter, you get to a point where you are in there with someone better than you and theres a touch of panic.
And when he got the low blow, I think thats what happened; he panicked and it was just like get me out of here.
Whats next for Khan?
It seems like the often-speculated fight between Khan and Kell Brook might finally come to fruition, but McCrory thinks that will only be because neither man has many other options.
It is five years past its sell-by date, but Kell [Brook] is five years past his sell-by date as well, no disrespect to either one of them.
So thats still a good fight.
Theyre excellent fighters who are short of little bit short to be the very top class, but theyve still had great careers and thats still an interesting fight.
I think a lot of people would still want to see that.
Amir, I got to say hes a great kid, McCrory said.
I would never hes a quitter.
I just think it was too much for him.
Hes had a long, tough career, hes now been stopped four times, hes never ducked a fight, hes never been scared of a row, never been scared of getting into a war, so, a lot of respect for him.
3 Khan and Brook have been linked rivals for a long time now Just, all of a sudden when you go in with someone who is superior, theres that moment when you realise Im out of my depth, and that happens at every level, and it happened to Amir Khan, McCrory said of Khans defeat to Crawford.
So, should Khan retire?
Many pundits seem to think so and McCrory thinks if he can fight Brook he should, but otherwise, his time might be up.
I got criticised for telling Amir to retire quite a well ago, he continued.
Theres still fights isnt there?
Its just at what level.
He should retire from the very top level thats a given.
But, theres still fights for him.
Just because youre not the best in the world doesnt mean you have to quit, doesnt mean you have to hang up your gloves.
I think everybody would like to see the Brook fight but failing that, what else is there for him?
Failing a big British fight with Kell Brook, maybe it is time for Amir to hang them up.
Khan said in the wake of his defeat to Crawford that he would take some time off, spend time with his family and then decide his future.
The La Liga giants are reportedly cautious about matching the Frenchman's current 280,000-a-week deal at Old Trafford Real Madrid are reluctant to match Paul Pogbas wage demands because it could upset other big earners like Gareth Bale and Sergio Ramos, reports claim.
The Manchester United midfielder has been heavily linked with a summer move to the Bernabeu after recently admitting it would be a dream to play for Madrid.
1 Pogba could be off to the Bernabeu this summer Zinedine Zidane is thought to be planning a total overhaul of his current squad when the season ends and the French icon is an admirer of his compatriot Pogba.
However, according to Spanish publication AS, the club are cautious about matching Pogbas current 280,000-a-week deal at Old Trafford.
That figure would make Pogba the highest-paid player at Madrid, the newspaper claims, and the club are worried that might cause friction in the dressing room.
LATEST TRANSFER NEWS MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target gossip Liverpool and Arsenal 'ready to launch bids' for in-demand Hazard gossip Chelsea want 'perfect replacement' Coutinho if Eden Hazard leaves this summer overhaul How Man United could line-up with targets next season, including Felix and Pepe MORE FIREPOWER Sam Allardyce outlines what Everton need to become top six club PAPER TALK Liverpool and Arsenal join race for Hazard, Chelsea eye Coutinho, Pogba latest NEXT MESSI Man City hope to sign exciting Argentine midfielder who turns 18 on Friday AS says it would top Bales 250,000-a-week deal and captain Ramos 196,000-a-week packet.
It is understood Pogba would be unwilling to take a pay cut, which could see any potential move fall through.
However, the 26-year-old could see his current wages slashed by 25 per cent if Manchester United fail to qualify for next seasons Champions League.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2...
Hull vs Sheffield United (Monday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 Brentford vs Leeds United (Monday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 Pogba would be forced to accept the cut along with the rest of the squad due to an automatic clause in the players contracts.
The Frenchman and David de Gea are reportedly using the uncertainty around Uniteds top-four hopes to demand huge pay rises and offset the threat of a wage cut.
The Midlands club triumphed 1-0 in the early kick-off on Monday to strengthen their hold on a play-off spot Micky Gray believes Aston Villa will have their Championship promotion rivals quaking in their boots.
The Midlands club broke a 109-year club record as they made it ten wins in a row by beating Millwall 1-0 in the Championships lunchtime kick-off on Monday.
2 Aston Villa are in outstanding form under Dean Smith The victory all but secured a top six spot for Dean Smiths men, and Gray insists no team will want to face resurgent Villa in the play-offs.
The talkSPORT pundit a Championship promotion winner with Sunderland said: Ten wins in a row what an achievement.
That is so difficult to do when you think about how many games they have had and how quick they come around.
I covered them against Bolton and in the second half they were exceptional.
Everybody knows their job.
Dean Smith has gone into that club and galvanised it.
2 Jack Grealish has been key to Aston Villas record-breaking run You wouldnt want to play them.
They are established in the play-offs and nobody will want to play them.
The way they are playing, they will take some stopping.
Villa had been languishing in mid-table before starting their amazing winning run, which has surpassed the previous best of nine consecutive victories set back in 1910.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph They were without 25-goal striker Tammy Abraham against Millwall due to a shoulder injury but Jonathan Kodjia ensured the on-loan Chelsea youngster was not missed, firing home what proved to be the winner in the 30th minute.
The victory extends fifth placed Villas lead over Bristol City in seventh to nine points, although the Robins have two games in hand.
While Villa are chasing promotion, Millwall are fighting desperately to avoid relegation and remain one place above the drop zone after seeing their four-game unbeaten run come to an end.
The Brits corner threw in the towel in the sixth round in New York after he took an accidental shot to the groin Legendary boxing reporter Colin Hart is adamant Amir Khan DID quit against Terence Crawford as the Brit knew he was in for a battering in New York.
The WBO welterweight title fight came to a bizarre and anticlimactic conclusion on Saturday at Madison Square Garden.
3 The referee waves off the fight after Amir Khan and his corners decision Khan was floored in opening round and then took an accidental low blow to the groin in the sixth leading to his corner stopping the fight.
Regulations allowed the Brit five minutes to recover, but his trainer Virgil Hunter threw in the towel within two saying his fighter could not continue.
Khan has insisted he did not quit and has even claimed he suffered an elbow injury in the build-up to the clash.
And, despite widespread calls for him to retire, has said he will fight again.
3 Crawford clearly caught Khan low But Hart says the Brit is in denial and should now hang up his gloves for good.
He probably will, but he shouldnt fight again, the veteran boxing correspondent told talkSPORT host Jim White.
Theres no doubt in my mind.
Everybody connected to Amir should persuade him enough is enough, he is no longer a world-class fighter and if he goes in he is liable to get very seriously hurt.
Hes in denial he did quit!
Its unpalatable to say that about any fighter, but he quit all right.
He just wont admit it.
LATEST BOXING NEWS you Khan't go on Glenn McCrory: Amir Khan should fight Kell Brook or retire from boxing Now or never Amir Khan vs Kell Brook: Barry Hearn says they need to fight this year TEMPTED?
Andre Ward refuses to rule out comeback and admits he misses boxing 'a lot' DISPUTE 'You didn't quit?'
- Terence Crawford argues with Amir Khan at press conference REACTION Khan reveals he suffered elbow injury before Crawford loss; vows not to retire It wasn't me Fans blast Crawford for denying low blow to Khan that replays clearly prove Low Blow, Kell Kell Brook claims Khan quit Vs Crawford because he 'looked for a way out' BELOW THE BELT Crawford vs Khan result: Brit loses by bizarre, controversial stoppage He was given five minutes grace and he didnt take it, after about two minutes he indicated he didnt want to go on.
Im not blaming him because he was in for a battering, he knew he had no chance of winning that fight and that was his way out.
Its happened before.
It happened with Mike Tyson against Evander Holyfield when Tyson bit the top of his ear off that was Tysons way of getting out of the fight.
Amir was going to get knocked out or stopped, one way or the other.
Before the fight Crawford was 1/10, Amir had no chance from the very beginning.
As soon as he signed the contract we knew he was going to get beaten, it was just a question of how long it was going to take.
3 Amir Khan was well beaten by Terence Crawford in New York Hes allegedly got about $4million, so I can understand him taking the fight Barry Hearn reckons he can still make money putting Khan in with Kell Brook, but for what?
The north of England welterweight championship?
Hearn should also be trying to persuade Khan his career is over.
The midfielder has been a key player for Spurs this season, but suffered a groin injury during last week's quarter-final second leg clash against Manchester City Tottenhams campaign to reach a first ever Champions League final has been dealt a huge blow with the news that Moussa Sissoko looks likely to miss the semi-final first leg against Ajax.
Midfielder Sissoko, who has been one of Spurs best players this season, suffered a groin injury during last weeks quarter-final second leg match against Manchester City, and has been ruled out by boss Mauricio Pochettino for two weeks.
2 Injury forced Sissoko off during the clash with Man City A fortnight absence would rule Sissoko out the home leg of their last-four tie on April 30, a game which Heung-min Son, who has stepped up in Harry Kanes absence, is also suspended for.
Sissoko joins Kane in the treatment room ahead of Tuesdays Premier League clash with Brighton while Hugo Lloris and Harry Winks will also be assessed.
Pochettino said: Moussa Sissoko is not going to be fit, maybe for the next two weeks, we hope he can recover before but I am not so optimistic.
Harry Winks we dont know because it is a problem that is one day very good, next day not very good, it is about assessing each day.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph We hope he will be available for Tuesday but we are not sure.
Lloris I hope yes, we are going to assess, we have a training session and we hope it is not a big issue, we hope he is going to be available.
With the Ajax tie looming large it could be easy for Spurs players to be focused solely on that, but results in the Premier League this weekend will sharpen their mind.
Even though they lost at Manchester City in their second game in 72 hours at the Etihad Stadium, their top-four chances were enhanced as Arsenal and Manchester United also lost the following day.
If Spurs can beat Brighton and then West Ham in back-to-back games at their new stadium, then they will go a long way to ensuring a fourth successive top four finish.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 We are not thinking of Ajax, Pochettino added.
We showed at Manchester City that we are thinking in the today and that competition, the Premier League.
Now our energy is in Brighton.
It is so clear that we have two objectives one is to be in the top four at the end of the season and the other is to beat Ajax, but we need to go step-by-step.
The players, they know it, I think the behaviour and the mentality is perfect.
You know very well if there is something wrong I see it and I am going to tell them but I think they were very professional at City, the performance was very good and very professional.
2 Pochettino could guide Spurs to a Champions League final, as well as a fourth-successive Premier League top four finish Spurs will take confidence from being back at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium, where they have won their opening three games, scoring seven and conceding none.
And Pochettino wants more of the same.
We hope we can keep going, getting the same result, he added.
It is going to be fantastic and it is going to be helpful for us playing in the new stadium with our fans and we hope and wish to repeat the performances of the previous results.
Milner converted the spot kick won by Salah to secure the Reds a 2-0 defeat of Cardiff Mohamed Salah was left visibly frustrated when James Milner refused to let him take Liverpools late penalty in Sundays 2-0 defeat of Cardiff.
The Reds won in Wales to move back to the top of the Premier League table, having been knocked off first by Manchester City the previous day.
2 Georginio Wijnaldum scored a vital goal to open the scoring against Cardiff Cardiff did well to get to half-time with the match still tied, and Neil Warnocks side even had chances of their own to take an unexpected lead.
However, as soon as Georginio Wijnaldum opened the scoring from a well-worked corner it was clear Jurgen Klopps side would go on to pick up all three points.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph The result was secured nine minutes from time, when Milner fired past Neil Etheridge from the penalty spot after Salah was fouled in the area by Sean Morrison.
2 Salah went down after pressure by Morrison Milner is one of the most reliable penalty takers in the entire division, so it is no surprise he took responsibility for the spot kick.
Nonetheless, Milners decision to take the ball off Salah caused quite a bit of controversy.
Salah is himself a pretty dependable finisher from the spot (hes missed just one of six attempts for Liverpool), and if he had scored against Cardiff he would have moved first in the Premier League scoring charts in the race for the Golden Boot.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 And video footage from Sundays match showed just how frustrated Salah was when Milner came over demanding the ball to take the penalty.
Yes Milner is number one for penalty kicks but Salah wanted to be the league's top scorer and we're ahead and it will increase his confidence.
I really feel bad for Mo!
pic.twitter.com/XCoDa0PjPO Castle of the Kop (@castleofthekop) April 21, 2019 Salahs frustrations are understandable, but he cannot complain; Milner is Klopps designated penalty taker, and Liverpools win was not guaranteed at the time of the spot kick as they had only a one-goal lead.
Given just how close the title race is, every result is important for the Reds, and Salah should put the teams needs ahead of his own.
Nonetheless, its good to see Salah remains hungry for goals, and Liverpool fans will be hoping he gets the chance to hit the back of the net before the end of the season, as the Anfield outfit chase their first league championship in 29 years.
Kell Brook and Amir Khan is a domestic rivalry that has bubbled away for years, but is it too late of them to have a huge fight?
Now or never For plenty of boxing fans, the expected happened on Saturday night when Terence Crawford retained his WBO welterweight title against Amir Khan at Madison Square Garden.
Barely any boxing fans, however, could have predicted the way he would do that.
2 The referee waved it off after Amir Khan and his corners decision Khan retired from the fight in the fifth round after suffering a clear low blow one that Crawford would deny and the boxing world waits for Khans next move.
The former two-time world champion could easily retire and hold his head up high, but the long-standing feud with Kell Brook could be settled before he calls it a day.
For Barry Hearn father of Matchroom boxing kingpin Eddie thats the only move Khan has.
And he better do it now before the match completely loses its lustre.
2 Could we finally see Amir Khan vs Kell Brook in 2019?
The danger for both of them is the clocks ticking, Hearn said.
They need to sit down now in a quiet room and say lets get this fight signed for September or October.
Its difficult to judge Amir.
Is he over the hill, or was he simply just quite not good enough to beat Crawford?
I think the latter is probably closer to the mark.
He showed an energy and a drive that suggests he still has something left in the tank.
There are big fights out there for both Brook and Khan, and Brook has got to think about bringing himself down to 147lb if hes going to fight Khan, and it gets progressively harder to take off weight in safe fashion, Hearn said.
LATEST BOXING NEWS you Khan't go on Glenn McCrory: Amir Khan should fight Kell Brook or retire from boxing IN DENIAL 'Amir Khan did quit and should retire before he gets seriously hurt' TEMPTED?
Andre Ward refuses to rule out comeback and admits he misses boxing 'a lot' DISPUTE 'You didn't quit?'
- Terence Crawford argues with Amir Khan at press conference REACTION Khan reveals he suffered elbow injury before Crawford loss; vows not to retire It wasn't me Fans blast Crawford for denying low blow to Khan that replays clearly prove Low Blow, Kell Kell Brook claims Khan quit Vs Crawford because he 'looked for a way out' BELOW THE BELT Crawford vs Khan result: Brit loses by bizarre, controversial stoppage EXCUSE?
Crawford vs Khan: Fans slate Brit for using low blow to 'quit' FIGHT NIGHT Crawford vs Khan live result: Khan loses amid bizarre low blow finish They need to sign it and fight fans can plan for what I think will be a big fight.
If they dont make that decision now, frankly Father Time is ticking away and so is the interest in the fight.
Its hard to argue with Hearn.
This is a fight that has been bubbling in the background for years and four or five years ago, it would have been a huge, internationally received showdown.
Brook claimed that Khan took the easy way out of his fight with Crawford, a notion Khan vehemently denied.
While the domestic dispute still has legs, it has to happen this year.
Ex-Reds midfielder has his say after Neil Warnock likened the Egyptian ace to Olympic diver Tom Daley Former Liverpool midfielder Danny Murphy has insisted Mohamed Salah did not dive and deserved to be awarded a penalty during Sundays 2-0 victory over Cardiff.
The Egpytian has come under fire again for this theatrics, after he went to ground in the area under a challenge from Sean Morrison at the Cardiff City Stadium.
4 Mohamed Salah has again been accused of diving to win a penalty Bluebirds boss Neil Warnock accused the Reds star of a 9.9 dive and likened him to Olympic diver Tom Daley.
In truth, Morrison was all over Salah the Cardiff captain had both his arms around the Liverpool man and stopped him from moving in on goal without even attempting to win the ball.
Murphy has been a vocal critic of Salahs previous antics and admits the Egyptian ace didnt have to go to ground in that moment.
However, if he hadnt, the former Redman says he wouldnt have been given the penalty he deserved.
4 Sean Morrison grabs Mo Salah in the penalty area 4 Prevented from reaching the ball, Salah goes to ground 4 Morrison attempted to protest his innocence, but the referee pointed straight to the spot I think it was a pen, Murphy told talkSPORT host Jim White on Monday.
The defender has got to hold his hands up and say he was too tight and was grabbing him to too long.
If you take away Salahs previous, I dont think there are too many strikers on the planet who wouldnt have ended up on the floor with the amount of contact that was made.
Grapping a forward continually for that amount of time is always going to end up in a penalty.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more The problem is with Salahs previous.
The fact is he does go down too easily at times, and hes not on his own by the way.
If Im honest, I dont think he had to go down, but if he hasnt, he would never have got a penalty.
He was being grabbed so much that inevitably youre going to go over.
It was silly from the defender, who had a good game until then and Cardiff put in a spirited display.
But it didnt really affect the game.
Footballer-turned-Hollywood hard man has his say on the Red Devils dismal 4-0 defeat to Everton Vinnie Jones believes Manchester United have a severe case of Alan Brazil syndrome after watching them get thrashed 4-0 by Everton this weekend.
Like the talkSPORT host on Bank Holiday Easter Monday, the Red Devils just didnt turn up at Goodison Park.
2 Man United stars looked pretty clueless against Everton on Sunday They were played off the pitch in every aspect by the hungry Toffees, who thumped four brilliant goals past David de Gea to boost them up to seventh in the Premier League.
For United, it was another blow to their top four hopes and the worst possible preparation for this weeks derby clash with noisy neighbours Manchester City.
And Jones says the United players are falling well short of the precedent set by title chasers City and Liverpool this season.
2 Vinnie Jones poked fun at Sports Breakfast host Alan Brazil Speaking on Mondays Sports Breakfast, the footballer-turned-Hollywood hardman said: I think Manchester United have got Alan Brazil syndrome they didnt turn up!
As a player, you dont like to lose.
You throw your body in front of shots to stop goals and throw yourself into tackles, and we never saw any of that [against Everton].
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more When you watch Liverpool and Man City, there are players making fantastic runs, people dying for the cause thats what gets you championships.
United have a massive game coming up against Man City, and if they dont come out firing on all cylinders now after that result, theyll be all hell to pay.
The brother of Chelsea star Eden is expected to seal a move away from Borussia Monchengladbach this summer Liverpool and Arsenal are reportedly ready to launch bids for Thorgan Hazard, the younger brother of Chelsea star Eden.
The two Premier League sides are among numerous clubs keeping tabs on Hazard, who has starred since leaving the Blues for Borussia Monchengladbach, initially on loan, in 2014.
1 Hazards time with Gladbach appears to be coming to an end Their fiercest competition comes from Gladbachs Bundesliga rivals Borussia Dortmund, who are understood to be leading the race for Hazard.
The player himself is believed to favour a move to the Westfalenstadion, as he wishes to remain in Germany having spent the last five years in the country.
However, this is not deterring Arsenal or Liverpool, with the Daily Star claiming both clubs are ready to launch bids for the 26-year-old Belgium international.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph Despite spending three years on Chelseas books joining the same summer as his older brother Eden Hazard never made an appearance in English football.
He spent two years on loan at Zulte Waregem in his homeland, before joining Gladbach on a temporary deal.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Aston Villa vs Millwall (Monday, 1pm) talkSPORT 2 Hull vs Sheffield United (Monday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 Brentford vs Leeds United (Monday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 His move to the Bundesliga side was made permanent in January 2015, effective from that summer, and hes gone on to play 178 matches for Die Fohlen, scoring 45 goals and creating a further 43.
Hazard has made it clear he wishes to leave Borussia-Park, Max Eberl, Gladbachs sporting director, revealed earlier this month.
We made our intentions to extend Thorgans contract clear a while back now, he said, but he hasnt reciprocated that interest.
A number of clubs are playing their game in hand and it could really shake up the standings This midweek could be the biggest couple of days in the Premier League season.
Manchester City, currently two points behind Liverpool, face rivals Man United in their game in hand as the title race reaches its thrilling final throes.
7 Manchester City ace Raheem Sterling battles with Manchester United star Jesse Lingard earlier this season.
Win and they hold all the cards with just three games left, lose and they will need to win every match remaining and hope Liverpool slip up.
United meanwhile, would seemingly kiss top four goodbye if they were defeated on home soil by City.
Elsewhere, Tottenham Hotspur host Brighton & Hove Albion live on talkSPORT as they look to cement third spot but they face a tough ask against Chris Hughtons side who are battling hard against relegation, although Cardiffs defeat to Liverpool will have eased their fears.
Chelsea could do their Champions League qualification hopes the world of good with victory over Burnley on Monday night too.
Premier League midweek matches Chelsea vs Burnley (Monday) Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday) Live on alkSPORT Watford vs Southampton (Tuesday) Wolves vs Arsenal (Wednesday) Manchester United vs Manchester City (Wednesday) But how could the table look by the end of the week?
Using data from sportsvisualized.com, talkSPORT.com reveals the highest and lowest potential position for each team at the end of this round of fixtures.
You can see the results, below LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more 20.
Huddersfield Highest possible position: 20th Lowest possible position: 20th 19: Fulham Highest possible position: 19th Lowest possible position: 19th 18: Cardiff Highest possible position: 18th Lowest possible position: 18th 17: Brighton Highest possible position: 16th Lowest possible position: 17th 7 Brighton face Tottenham on Tuesday and want a result to keep them away from danger.
16: Southampton Highest possible position: 15th Lowest possible position: 17th 15: Burnley Highest possible position: 12th Lowest possible position: 16th 14: Bournemouth Highest possible position: 14th Lowest possible position: 15th 13: Newcastle Highest possible position: 13th Lowest possible position: 14th 7 Rafael Benitez celebrates with Saturdays hat-trick hero Ayoze Perez.
12: Crystal Palace Highest possible position: 12th Lowest possible position: 13th 11: West Ham Highest possible position: 11th Lowest possible position: 11th 10: Wolves Highest possible position: 7th Lowest possible position: 10th LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 9: Leicester City Highest possible position: 9th Lowest possible position: 10th 8: Watford Highest possible position: 7th Lowest possible position: 9th 7: Everton Highest possible position: 7th Lowest possible position: 9th 6: Manchester United Highest possible position: 3rd Lowest possible position: 6th 7 Manchester Uniteds Norwegian manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer apologises to fans after their defeat to Everton.
5: Chelsea Highest possible position: 3rd Lowest possible position: 6th 7 Can Olivier Giroud fire Chelsea above former club Arsenal this week?
4: Arsenal Highest possible position: 3rd Lowest possible position: 6th 7 Sokratis will need to be at his best for Arsenal in the final games of the season.
3: Tottenham Highest possible position: 3rd Lowest possible position: 6th 7 Tottenham Hotspur goalkeeper Hugo Lloris is set to return from injury against Brighton.
2: Manchester City Highest possible position: 1st Lowest possible position: 2nd 1: Liverpool Highest possible position: 1st Lowest possible position: 2nd
Footballer-turned-Hollywood hardman has his say on the penalty decision, after Neil Warnock likened the Egyptian to Tom Daley Vinnie Jones has joked Liverpool star Mohamed Salah is a better actor than he is after the Egyptians dive against Cardiff City.
Bluebirds boss Neil Warnock accused Salah of going to ground too easily to win a penalty during Liverpools 2-0 victory in south Wales, likening the forward to Olympic diver Tom Daley.
2 Sean Morrison was all over Salah at the Cardiff City Stadium In truth, in appeared to be a stonewall spot kick.
Cardiff captain Sean Morrison had both of his arms around the Reds star, stopping him from moving in on goal, before Salah went to ground.
But, that hasnt been enough to stop him coming under fire for more theatrics, with Jones who agrees the penalty was deserved poking fun at the Anfield hero.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more Speaking on Mondays Alan Brazil Sports Breakfast, the footballer-turned-Hollywood hardman said: How long was the bear hug going to go on?
The lad has got both his arms around Salah and he has thrown himself to the floor in the end, but hes had enough of it.
For me, its a definite penalty.
2 Warnock believes Salah dived Salah has thrown himself on the floor, but come on, the Cardiff player had his arms all over him.
I think he was terrified of him unleashing a shot on goal.
Salah might of gone to the drama school I never went to!
Former Chelsea and Republic of Ireland striker Cascarino expects big things from the Gunners starlet Former Chelsea forward Tony Cascarino has apologised to Tottenham fans for discovering the next Gareth Bale who just happens to play for Arsenal.
Cascarino, in his latest Times column, claims 21-year-old Gunners starlet Ainsley Maitland-Niles is showing all the same kind of traits as Bale did when he first joined Spurs in 2007.
2 Maitland-Niles has established himself as a valuable player under Unai Emery this season He is, as Cascarino writes, a full-back who is not really a full-back, as Bale was in his early career.
Eventually Bale moved higher and higher up the pitch, ending up as an all-out forward the position in which he became world class.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph Maitland-Niles is naturally a midfielder, and hes only been forced to play in defence due to the injury to Hector Bellerin.
Nonetheless, he has impressed at right-back, and has also shown his versatility by playing on the left side of defence on occasion this season.
Having developed as a player in a more advanced position, Maitland-Niles loves to get forward, making him the perfect option for a modern full-back.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Aston Villa vs Millwall (Monday, 1pm) talkSPORT 2 Hull vs Sheffield United (Monday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 Brentford vs Leeds United (Monday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 And Cascarino did not hold back in his praise of the youngster.
I saw the next Gareth Bale on Thursday, he writes in the Times, and he was wearing an Arsenal shirt.
Sorry, Spurs fans.
Ainsley Maitland-Niles is a full-back who is not really a full-back, just like Bale when he joined Tottenham in 2007.
He has fierce pace and gets in great positions to score and create chances.
He has improved hugely and has benefited from the injury to the first-choice right back Hctor Bellern.
2 Bale began his career as a left-back before moving into an attacking position He is more of a wing back but could easily play in midfield too.
Cascarino did offer a warning to Maitland-Niles, however, concerning the injuries that may occur due to his style of play.
After a few recent injuries, he continued, the worry is that his explosive style may make him injury-prone, like Bale.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's squad is in serious need of an overhaul in the summer and that was evidently clear following their 4-0 thrashing at Everton on Sunday The wheels have well and truly come off for Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer.
The Red Devils were dismantled 4-0 by Everton at Goodison Park on Sunday, dealing the Old Trafford chief his sixth defeat in his last eight games.
7 Solskjaer apologised to the travelling United faithful following the Everton hammering The side is in urgent need of another huge spend in the summer and the 200million war chest that Solskjaer was promised may not be enough to cover it.
Before the Norwegian is judged, however, he must be given time to formulate his own squad with his own targets as many of his current crop, including Paul Pogba who has been heavily linked to Real Madrid, look set to be leaving the club in the summer.
But how could a line-up with his own signings look next season?
talkSPORT.com has identified all Uniteds current targets and, although it is unlikely all of them will be signed, built a potential Red Devils XI for next term.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph Niklas Sule (Bayern Munich) Man United are ramping up their search for a new centre-back and according to German outlet Sport1, Bayern Munich defender Niklas Sule is at the top of Solskjaers wish-list.
The Germany international, 23, has shone for the Bavarian outfit this season, displacing Jerome Boateng to become a mainstay in the Bayern team.
7 Sule is a target for Man United United have reportedly enquired about the possibility of signing him in the summer and he is said to be keen on a move to the Premier League.
However, the German champions have no desire to cash in on the defender, but if they did let him go a bid in the region of 40million may be enough to prise him away from Germany.
Kieran Trippier (Tottenham) United are also reportedly targeting Tottenham right-back Kieran Trippier.
The England stars career in north London is hanging in the balance after a poor season following his World Cup heroics.
He has been the weak link in Mauricio Pochettinos side this campaign, with an own goal against Chelsea and a missed penalty against Crystal Palace in the FA Cup just two of his worst moments.
7 Trippier has endured a difficult season but a move elsewhere could change his fortune However, according to Gianluca Di Marzio, the Red Devils are keen to bring in the England star to replace the outgoing Antonio Valencia who is set to leave the club after nearly 11 years.
However, they face competition from abroad to capture his signature, with Napoli also monitoring the situation of the out-of-form right back.
Idrissa Gueye (Everton) Another player who could be on the way to Old Trafford is Evertons nimble box-to-box midfielder Gueye.
The Senegal international has made his name as one of the best Toffees players in recent seasons and was once again impressive against United on the weekend.
7 Gueye was once again impressive for Eveerton against United He has been likened to NGolo Kante for his work rate and could be a natural successor for the departing Ander Hererra, who is set to leave for PSG.
United have often used a three-man midfield in recent seasons, but with Nemanja Matic ageing and his form seemingly on a downward spiral, a move for Gueye could see that change where he could occupy a sole spot in front of defence.
Joao Felix (Benfica) Another player who has been linked with a move to United is Benfica wonderkid Joao Felix.
The Portuguese playmaker has risen to be one of the hottest properties in world football for his stellar performances in the Primeira Liga.
7 Felix is one of the hottest properties in Europe He has netted 11 goals and added six assists in 21 matches and recently made history by becoming the youngest ever player to net a Europa League hat-trick.
At just 19 years old, Felix has been touted to be one of the best players in the future however, Man City are also keen on signing the starlet, with reports claiming they have met with the agent of the teenager.
Nicolas Pepe (Lille) Another player who has been linked with a move to Old Trafford is Lille forward Pepe.
The 23-year-old winger is expected to be one of the most in-demand players when the summer transfer window opens.
Telefoot claims the Ivory Coast winger will leave the Ligue 1 outfit in the summer after two seasons with the club.
7 Pepe has been on stunning form this season Pepe has been in stunning form this season netting 19 goals and adding a further 11 assists in 32 league matches and interest is hotting up in the forward.
Only Kylian Mbappe has scored more Ligue 1 goals than Pepe (27) this term, however, Chelsea have also emerged as another contender for his signature as they prepare for life without Eden Hazard in the Premier League.
Have a look at the line-up in full below
Which clubs have got the best chance of improving their positions?
The Premier League season is 91 per cent completed but the remaining games still have so much riding on them.
A title is still up for grabs, as are places in the top four, while Brighton & Hove Albion and Cardiff City are battling to avoid occupying the last spot in the relegation zone.
6 Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp celebrates their win over Cardiff with his players.
Weve had so many twists and turns this season its tough to predict anything but some clubs are in a better position than others to achieve their respective goals as they have a perceived easier set of fixtures.
But which Premier League clubs have the best run-ins?
We consulted SoccerSTATS.com to find out the average points per game of each teams remaining foes.
LATEST FOOTBALL STORIES moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph 20.
Leicester Average points per game of opponents in their final three matches = 1.95 19.
Brighton Average points per game of opponents in their final four matches = 1.93 18.
Burnley Average points per game of opponents in their final four matches = 1.88 17.
Huddersfield Average points per game of opponents in their final three matches = 1.87 6 Huddersfield dont stand much chance of improving their points total this season.
15= Manchester City Average points per game of opponents in their final four matches = 1.56 15= Cardiff Average points per game of opponents in their final three matches = 1.56 14.
West Ham Average points per game of opponents in their final three matches = 1.55 13.
Newcastle Average points per game of opponents in their final three matches = 1.54 6 Newcastle could yet fire themselves higher up the table.
12.
Wolves Average points per game of opponents in their final four matches = 1.51 11.
Chelsea Average points per game of opponents in their final four matches = 1.44 LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 10.
Everton Average points per game of opponents in their final three matches = 1.34 9.
Watford Average points per game of opponents in their final four matches = 1.30 8.
Arsenal Average points per game of opponents in their final four matches = 1.27 6 The Gunners face a battle to finish in the top four.
7.
Manchester United Average points per game of opponents in their final four matches = 1.23 6.
Southampton Average points per game of opponents in their final four matches = 1.11 5.
Fulham Average points per game of opponents in their final three matches = 1.08 4.
Bournemouth Average points per game of opponents in their final three matches = 1.06 6 The Cherries have had plenty of ups and down this year but could end the campaign on a high.
2= Crystal Palace Average points per game of opponents in their final three matches = 1.02 2= Tottenham Average points per game of opponents in their final four matches = 1.02 6 Will Heung-Min Son fire Spurs to a top four finish?
1.
Liverpool Average points per game of opponents in their final three matches = 0.97
'God' is set to take charge of the Australian outfit from next season Robbie Fowler is set to take on his first full-time coaching role with the Liverpool legend to be appointed Brisbane Roar manager.
Fowler, known as God to the Anfield faithful, has been out of the game since 2012, when he retired as a player and left his role as player-manager of Muangthong United.
1 Anfield legend Fowler scored 183 goals for Liverpool He spent a year in the joint role with the Thai club, and is now due to become a full-time coach for the first time as Brisbane Roar have chosen the 44-year-old as their new manager.
The Sydney Morning Herald claim Fowler will be unveiled as the Roars boss on Tuesday, ahead of their final match of the A-League season against Adelaide United.
Fowler will begin work at the start of the new season, with Darren Davies, Brisbanes caretaker manager, overseeing the final game of this campaign.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph Davies is expected to remain on Brisbanes coaching staff under Fowler, likely as an assistant coach.
Fowlers appointment ends Brisbanes four-month search for a permanent successor to John Aloisi, who resigned as manager last December after just one win in the previous nine matches.
Fowler is no stranger to the A-League.
The former England international spent two seasons playing in Australias top division, representing North Queensland Fury in 2009/10 before joining Perth Glory for the following campaign.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Aston Villa vs Millwall (Monday, 1pm) talkSPORT 2 Hull vs Sheffield United (Monday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 Brentford vs Leeds United (Monday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 His lengthy club career began at Liverpool where he remains a club icon with Fowler returning to Anfield in 2006 after time with Leeds United and Manchester City.
He also played for Cardiff and Blackburn before leaving English football for good in 2009 to test himself in Australia.
Everton may have proven their attacking potential in Sundays 4-0 victory over Manchester United, but Sam Allardyce believes they still need to sign a top striker to break into the Premier Leagues top six.
The Toffees produced perhaps their best performance of the season as they thrashed the Red Devils at Goodison Park, with four different players on the scoresheet.
2 Theo Walcott celebrates with Everton with team-mates after scoring their fourth goal against Man United Brazilian ace Richarlison showed once again why he is Marco Silvas main man with a stunning overhead kick to open the scoring, with Gylfi Sigurdsson, Lucas Digne and Theo Walcott subjecting a downbeat United to their fifth straight defeat away from home.
The victory lifted Everton up to seventh place, although Ole Gunnar Solskjaers side are 15 points ahead in sixth.
Still, its progress for the Merseyside club, although former manager Allardyce believes the Toffees need more firepower to really start challenging with the Premier Leagues top sides.
2 Richarlisons superb overhead kick gave Everton the lead Everton were fantastic against Manchester United and its really put them on a high to end the season, he said on Mondays Alan Brazil Sports Breakfast.
But, if you look at where Everton need to be, they need another top centre forward.
If you want to finish in the top six, which is what Everton fans are sort of demanding at the moment, then they need to find a striker who is going to get 15 or 20 goals a season.
And not only is that a hard job, its one of the most expensive jobs in the game today.
But, Big Sam has given a glowing assessment of young striker Dominic Calvert-Lewin, and hopes he can start leading the line for the Toffees next season.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more The 22-year-old has established himself as a regular in the Everton side this term and ahead of the United clash, he even said he is confident he will soon be competing alongside Sergio Aguero and Harry Kane.
The forward has scored just 17 goals in 90 appearances for the Toffees so far, but Allardyce is expecting great things from the England Under-21 international.
He added: Calvert-Lewin has improved immensely this season and next season he might even improve yet again.
I think hes a quality player, but hes still a little short on his goal tally to command that centre forward position on a regular basis.
But he may do it next season.
Manchester United Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has lost his golden touch and faces a big challenge to pick up his team for this weeks Manchester derby.
Thats according to Sam Allardyce, who joined talkSPORT to look back on Uniteds 4-0 thrashing to his former club Everton on Sunday.
2 United were torn apart by Everton The dreadful Red Devils were outplayed in every area of the pitch at Goodison Park.
They were so bad that Solskjaer issued a public apology to fans for his sides performance, saying it was not worthy of a United team.
The defeat was another blow to their top-four hopes but also the worst possible preparation for Wednesdays clash against noisy neighbours Man City.
Supporters were singing Oles at the wheel when Solskjaer was given the permanent manager job in March, but the wheels have well and truly fallen off since his full-time appointment.
2 Richarlisons superb overhead kick gave Everton the lead It all started so well for Solskjaer with 11 unbeaten games as caretaker boss, but United have now lost six of their last eight matches in all competitions, with the players falling into a slump not seen since when Jose Mourinho was in charge.
They host City at Old Trafford on Wednesday where they will surely be aiming for a morale-boosting win, despite the fact they would be doing arch rivals Liverpool a huge favour in their Premier League title pursuit.
And Big Sam believes this run of form has been a big wake up call for the former striker.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more Ole has finally found out what managing Manchester United is like, the ex-Everton boss told the Alan Brazil Sports Breakfast on Monday.
All of a sudden hes gone from having a golden touch to, how do I solve this problem we have now?
The problem is deepening by every single game and hes got to find a way very, very quickly to put it right.
Theyve got a massive game on Wednesday against Manchester City and hes got to pull some magic out of the bag and get the team focused and back playing like they did when he first arrived.
Its a big challenge for him now.
CM Punk returned to an indy show this weekend, but is it the first time he has returned to the ring?
With Dean Ambrose having his final match in WWE for a while, Sasha Banks taking some time out and CM Punk seemingly returning to the business, its safe to say a lot is going on in the wrestling industry right now.
Lets take a look at the rumours currently floating around: 2 Vince McMahon proudly standing in front of his WWE Network More on CM Punk return As it was noted yesterday, CM Punk made a return to wrestling at an indy show under a mask.
Wrestling Inc say that Punk was actually meant to unmask but they changed the plans at the last minute.
Furthermore, Sean Ross Sapp suggests that Punk has done this a few times over the past few years without revealing his identity.
2 CM Punk failed to replicate his WWE success in mixed martial arts Backlash cancelled in June WWE cancelled their event in Saudi Arabia in May earlier this month and now they have cancelled the June pay-per-view, Backlash.
Speculation suggests that they have done this to accommodate a new Saudi Arabia show.
LATEST WWE NEWS 'I can't be bought' Ambrose appears to take shot at Vince McMahon in final WWE interview He's back CM Punk returns to wrestling for the first time in five years at indie event rumour round-up WWE gossip column: update on Sasha Banks' future, injury for Daniel Bryan Superstar Shakeup WWE production team make huge error and spoil The Usos debut on RAW Who could it be?
Vince McMahon to reveal 'biggest acquisition in SmackDown LIVE history' one more time Watch: Dean Ambrose appears after Raw went off air rumour round-up WWE gossip column: Sasha Banks was not backstage at RAW last night, on the move WWE Superstar Shakeup results: Raw claims three former WWE champions Dean Ambroses final match The Shield had their final match last night at a live event and you can watch that on the WWE Network.
The fans chanted please dont go at Dean Ambrose.
The Lunatic Fringe is said to be backstage at Raw tonight but the WWE are said to be aware of the numerous farewells and will probably not use him on air or off.
Cody Rhodes Vs Dustin Rhodes confirmed for Double or Nothing Dustin Rhodes, also known to WWE fans as Goldust, was revealed to be Cody Rhodes opponent for Double or Nothing on Saturday night.
It will be brother Vs brother with Dustin posting a farewell message yesterday online.
Ambrose set to retire Dave Meltzer has been told that Ambrose is retiring from wrestling and although at 33-years-old hes unlikely to stay that way forever, he needs an extended break.
The belief within WWE is that Ambrose will not sign with any other major companies, All Elite Wrestling included.
Sarri says people put 'too much importance' on Europe's premier cup competition given how much luck is needed to progress Chelsea manager Maurizio Sarri claims the strength of the Premier League means the Carabao Cup is HARDER than the Champions League.
The Blues are fighting to qualify for Europes premier cup competition, and they can take a huge step forward with a defeat of Burnley this evening.
1 Sarri is hoping to lead Chelsea back into the Champions League Victory would move Chelsea into third place, three points clear of Arsenal and two ahead of Tottenham, though both London sides would have a game in hand over the Stamford Bridge outfit.
Chelsea can also qualify for the Champions League by winning this seasons Europa League, a competition in which they have reached the semi-final stage.
Asked if it would be easier to reach the Champions League via the Europa League or the Premier League, Sarri said: The Premier League is really very difficult, for getting in the final of the League Cup we had to play against Liverpool, against Tottenham, [and] the final against Manchester City.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph It was easier to get to the final of the Champions League.
Manchester United are also battling to finish in the top four, though Sundays defeat by Everton leaves them two points behind Chelsea and their top four hopes hanging by a thread.
United also saw themselves knocked out the Champions League last week, as did their local rivals Manchester City.
Tottenham and Liverpool remain in contention for Ol Big Ears, and could even meet in the final if they progress past Ajax and Barcelona respectively.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Aston Villa vs Millwall (Monday, 1pm) talkSPORT 2 Hull vs Sheffield United (Monday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 Brentford vs Leeds United (Monday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 It would be quite remarkable for an all-English final, but that didnt stop Sarri questioning the importance placed on the Champions League.
I think many give to the Champions League too much importance, he added.
Of course it is the most important competition for clubs but it is a competition with straight elimination so sometimes you need a post in [the ball to go in off the post] or a post out [the ball to bounce off the post and away] to qualify or to be eliminated.
Its clear its the most important competition for clubs in Europe, and as a consequence in the world, but its a competition in which you need to be lucky.
This is how stats experts think the Premier League table SHOULD look as we enter the final three, or so, games This Premier League season is set to be thrill a minute until the final whistle is blown with yet another barnstorming set of fixtures across the Bank Holiday.
Manchester City got another win against a stubborn, top-four chasing Tottenham Hotspur side, while Liverpool hit back with a victory over Cardiff City on Sunday.
7 Phil Foden celebrates his goal which won Man City the game against Tottenham This ensures the title race continues to enthral, with City playing rivals Man United on Wednesday in their game in hand, while Arsenal blew their chance to go third by losing 3-2 to Crystal Palace.
Meanwhile, at the other end of the table, Brighton & Hove Albion kept their survival hopes up by drawing 0-0 with Wolverhampton Wanderers, who lost ground to Everton in the race for seventh spot.
Some results were deserved, others less so.
But how would the Premier League table look if it was based on results calculated by Expected Goals?
LATEST PREMIER LEAGUE NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend red rival Watch Salah's frustrated reaction when Milner takes penalty off Liverpool star STONEWALL Mo Salah didnt dive and deserved penalty against Cardiff, says Danny Murphy VINNIE'S VERDICT Man United have got Alan Brazil syndrome they dont turn up REVEALED Premier League table: How the top-flight could change in midweek Here at talkSPORT.com were always keeping an eye on Understat.com to see how clubs are performing based on their xG stats.
Find out how the stats believe the Premier League SHOULD be shaping up below What is expected goals?
Expected goals (xG) is a statistic used to work out how many goals should be scored in a match.
Every single shot is awarded an xG value based on the difficulty of the attempt, with factors including distance from goal, type of shot and number of defenders present affecting the value.
The higher the xG of a particular shot, the more likely a goal should be scored from that shot.
The xG value of every shot in a game is then used to calculate the expected goals in a particular match.
20.
Huddersfield Real position = 20 Games played 35 Real points = 14 | Expected points = 27.75 19.
Fulham Real position = 19 Games played 35 Real points = 23 | Expected points = 32.18 18.
Brighton & Hove Albion Real position = 17 Games played 34 Real points = 34 | Expected points = 32.20 7 Brighton & Hove Albion fans celebrate their draw with Wolves 17.
Cardiff City Real position = 18 Games played 35 Real points = 31 | Expected points = 33.10 16.
Newcastle United Real position = 13 Games played 35 Real points = 41 | Expected points = 34.89 15.
West Ham Real position = 11 Games played 35 Real points = 43 | Expected points = 37.87 7 West Ham players look dejected after Leicester Citys late equaliser on Saturday.
14.
Burnley Real position = 15 Games played 34 Real points = 39 | Expected points = 39.96 13.
Southampton Real position = 16 Games played 34 Real points = 36 | Expected points = 39.99 12.
Watford Real position = 8 Games played 34 Real points = 49 | Expected points = 43.84 LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 11.
Bournemouth Real position = 14 Games played 34 Real points = 41 | Expected points = 47.00 10.
Crystal Palace Real position = 12 Games played 35 Real points = 42 | Expected points = 47.74 7 Wilfried Zaha celebrates scoring against Arsenal.
9.
Everton Real position = 7 Games played 35 Real points = 49 | Expected points = 48.60 8.
Leicester Real position = 9 Games played 35 Real points = 48 | Expected points = 52.01 7.
Wolverhampton Wanderers Real position = 10 Games played 34 Real points = 48 | Expected points = 52.74 6.
Arsenal Real position = 4 Games played 34 Real points = 66 | Expected points = 53.72 7 Arsenals Spanish head coach Unai Emery gestures from the touchline.
5.
Manchester United Real position = 6 Games played 34 Real points = 64 | Expected points = 56.00 4.
Tottenham Real position = 3 Games played 34 Real points = 67 | Expected points = 56.78 7 Tottenham Hotspurs players react at the final whistle against Manchester City.
3.
Chelsea Real position = 5 Games played 34 Real points = 66 | Expected points = 63.30 2.
Liverpool Real position = 1 Games played 35 Real points = 88 | Expected points = 77.00 7 Liverpool players celebrate Georginio Wijnaldums goal.
1.
Manchester City Real position = 2 Games played 34 Real points = 86 | Expected points = 82.17
Phelan returned to Old Trafford when Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was appointed caretaker manager, and club officials want to keep him around on a long-term basis Mike Phelan is set to be offered the chance to become Manchester Uniteds first ever technical director, according to reports.
Phelan, the former United player, has been back in the Old Trafford dugout as assistant since Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was named the clubs caretaker manager, and Red Devils officials want to keep him around on a long-term basis.
1 Phelan returned to Man United when Solskjaer was named caretaker manager However, the Daily Mail claim he will not be kept on as Solskjaers No2, with the 56-year-old to be offered the post of technical director a position which has never before existed in the clubs history.
Phelan worked under Sir Alex Ferguson for over a decade, including a five-year spell as his assistant in the final stretch of Sir Alexs reign as boss.
He is well respected around Old Trafford and has supported Solskjaer throughout his rise from caretaker to permanent manager.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph Should Phelan accept the new job, it is understood Michael Carrick will be promoted to a role that effectively makes him Solskjaers assistant, while Kieran McKenna who was named part of the senior coaching staff after Solskjaers appointment will also get a new contract.
United enjoyed a remarkable run of form immediately after Solskjaers return to Old Trafford on an interim basis last December, though results have suffered a severe downturn over the past couple of months.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Aston Villa vs Millwall (Monday, 1pm) talkSPORT 2 Hull vs Sheffield United (Monday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 Brentford vs Leeds United (Monday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT Tottenham vs Brighton (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT Luton vs AFC Wimbledon (Tuesday, 7:45pm) talkSPORT 2 Sheffield United vs Ipswich (Saturday, 5:15pm) talkSPORT 2 Brighton vs Newcastle (Saturday, 5:30pm) talkSPORT Norwich vs Blackburn (Saturday, 7:30pm) talkSPORT 2 Leeds United vs Aston Villa (Sunday, 12pm) talkSPORT 2 Coventry vs Shrewsbury (Sunday, 3pm) talkSPORT 2 They have won just two of their previous eight matches losing the other six to be knocked out the Champions League and find their Premier League top four hopes hanging by a thread.
Up next, the Red Devils clash with local rivals Manchester City at home, hoping to get back to winning ways ahead of this weekends vitally important top four clash against Chelsea.
Dawkins, a Crystal Palace youth player, died last month of leukaemia, aged 13 Manchester City and England forward Raheem Sterling will cover all the costs for the funeral of Crystal Palace youth player Damary Dawkins, who died last month aged 13.
Sterling became close to the youngster before he died of leukaemia, and also supported the campaign by Dawkins family to find a suitable stem cell donor for him.
The 24-year-old former Liverpool player is due to attend the service in Dagenham on Friday.
Damary was a special young man who touched a lot of lives, including my own.
Positive until the end, he was an example to us all, Sterling said.
Sterling paid tribute to Dawkins by lifting his shirt to reveal a picture of the two of them together following his second goal in Englands 5-0 defeat of Czech Republic last month.
1 Sterling paid tribute to Dawkins while on England duty last month Dawkins father has previously discussed the relationship between the player and his son.
I knew that they used to speak because [Sterling] came down to the hospital, they played pool together and apparently they swapped numbers, he told the Press Association last month.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph I remember when Crystal Palace played Manchester City and they [City] lost, Damary put on his tracksuit with the Crystal Palace badge and took a picture to send to Raheem.
They had banter with each other.
[The shirt tribute] was very, very touching and fitting.
I know Damary touched his heart.
talkSPORT.com round up all the latest transfer news and football gossip from the Bank Holiday Mondays papers and online Paul Pogbas salary demands could prove a stumbling block in the Manchester United midfielders move to Real Madrid.
(AS) Former Liverpool star Philippe Coutinho is a target for Chelsea, who are considering the Barcelona man as a replacement for Eden Hazard ahead of his expected move to Real Madrid.
(Calciomercato) Liverpool have contacted Lille about signing 23-year-old forward Nicolas Pepe.
(Daily Mirror) Liverpool and Arsenal are ready to launch bids for Borussia Monchengladbach midfielder Thorgan Hazard.
(Daily Star) 3 Thorgan Hazard is much admired around Europe due to his performances for Borussia Monchengladbach Newcastle United striker, Ayoze Perez, scorer of a hat-trick against Southampton on Saturday, has hinted he could leave St James Park this summer.
(Daily Mirror) Motherwell midfielder and Scotland Under-21 international Jake Hastie has agreed a pre-contract deal with Rangers.
(Daily Record) Rafa Benitezs future as Magpies manager is still in doubt despite the promise of 100m to spend on transfers.
(Daily Star) Nice could make a move to sign Chelsea striker Olivier Giroud, according to their president Gauthier Ganaye.
(Goal) Kylian Mbappe refuted talk he could join Real Madrid this summer, after the Paris Saint-Germain star scored a hat-trick against former club Monaco.
(Goal) 3 Coutinho has struggled at Barcelona and has been linked with a return to the Premier League But, PSG team-mate Edinson Cavani would not confirm his future is with the French champions.
(Canal+) AC Milan are set to make Chelsea midfielder Tiemoue Bakayokos loan move permanent, but will need to pay the Blues around 30m for the 24-year-old.
(Calciomeracto) Manchester United are ready to offer Mike Phelan the role of technical director and promote former midfielder Michael Carrick to assistant manager.
(Daily Mail) Arsenal legend Thierry Henry is in talks with New York Red Bulls over becoming his former MLS clubs new boss.
(Sky Sports)
Unai Emery defended Shkodran Mustafi following the centre-backs mistake during Arsenals 3-2 defeat to Crystal Palace.
The Gunners top-four hopes were dealt a serious blow after goals from Christian Benteke, Wilfried Zaha and James McArthur sealed a memorable win for the Eagles.
Mesut Ozil and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang led the hosts fightback, but the match hinged on a moment of madness from Mustafi, who inexcusably allowed Zaha to latch onto a seemingly-harmless ball and put Palace 2-1 up.
It was the latest in a string of Mustafi errors which have cost the Gunners this season, but Emery refused to criticise the German.
1 Mustafi was responsible for Palaces crucial second goal Im going to protect every player because they worked and tried to do their best possible, he told talkSPORT.
I think we can speak about them all generally and not focus on individual issues.
The Arsenal boss admitted his team missed a big opportunity to climb into third and seize control of the top four on an Easter weekend which also saw Tottenham and Manchester United slip up.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more However, he remains positive about their chances of qualifying for next seasons Champions League.
Its a big frustration but we have more reason to be proud of the team, Emery added.
It gives us less opportunity to be in the top four but it continues to be in our hands.
We have the advantage in the table.
We won a lot of opportunities before.
Today we lost this opportunity but we need to keep the same motivation and be positive.
Jurgen Klopp says there are no easy games in the Premier League after Liverpool returned to its summit with a 2-0 win at Cardiff.
On an Easter Sunday which saw Manchester United battered by Everton and Arsenal stunned at home to Crystal Palace, the Reds did not falter in their race for the title.
After a host of missed opportunities, Georginio Wijnaldum finally broke the deadlock with an excellent half volley before James Milner sealed the three points from the penalty spot.
With Cardiff fighting for their lives in the relegation zone, Klopp knew the Bluebirds wouldnt make things easy and hailed his sides patience and maturity.
1 Klopp praised his teams mentality Thats the Premier League, he told talkSPORT.
There are no presents anywhere, not even on Easter!
We knew it would be really difficult.
We had some wonderful chances in the first-half which we couldnt finish off and second-half we used set pieces.
Its brilliant, the boys did outstandingly well staying in the game like this and not getting frustrated with all the things which are not easy on a day like this because of the opponent and how they defend, the dry pitch, the warm weather.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more The boys looked very mature today, thats very important on a day like this.
Its difficult to keep patient and stay calm in this situation.
Liverpool must now rely on a favour from bitter rivals Manchester United when they travel to Manchester City on Wednesday.
The Reds have a two-point cushion over City, who have played a game less, and a result for United would put Liverpool in control with three favourable fixtures remaining.
Neil Warnock has compared Mohamed Salah to Olympic diver Tom Daley after the Liverpool man won a penalty during the 2-0 defeat of Cardiff.
James Milner dispatched from the spot after Georginio Wijnaldum opened the scoring but once again, the Bluebirds were left feeling hard done by.
With the game deadlocked, no penalty was awarded when Andy Robertson appeared to tug on Sean Morrisons shirt in the Liverpool box.
However, the Cardiff skipper was punished for the same offence when Salah took a theatrical tumble late on.
3 Salah was awarded a penalty late in the game Once again, one or two things have gone against us, but Im always like that, arent I?
Warnock told talkSPORT.
There would be a lot of penalties in matches if you give things like that.
Its a soft penalty.
At the end of the tugging, the theatrics of the dive were a solid 9.9.
Its a Tom Daley job, that.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more Its not just the [Liverpool] penalty, I think we shouldve had a penalty after half-time.
When you look at the way Robertsons pulled his shirt, all of the television pundits say its a penalty by the letter of the law.
But they get away with it.
They say the sun mightve been in the linesmans eyes.
3 Warnock believes Salah dived Defeat leaves the Bluebirds with a serious mountain to climb if they are to escape the relegation zone and survive.
Warnocks men are three points adrift of Brighton, who have played a game less, but the Cardiff boss remains upbeat.
I cant ask my players to give any more than what theyre giving, he added.
3 Milner sent the goalkeeper the wrong way The fans have been amazing and Im really pleased that we put in a performance today.
We didnt want to sit back, we wanted to be positive and I thought we were.
Were playing against a brilliant side.
Theres not a weakness in that side.
So to take them as far as we could, I think it was a fabulous performance.
Andre Ward has admitted he misses boxing a lot when probed about a possible comeback, which he refused to rule out.
The retired American quit the sport in 2017 when two victories over light-heavyweight king Sergey Kovalev cemented his status as pound-for-pound number one.
Im relaxing right now and enjoying myself, but I do miss it.
I miss it a lot.
@AndreWard refuses to rule out coming out of retirement to fight again @AdamCatterall & @GarethADaviesDT pushed all the way for an answer pic.twitter.com/7TczvGZhN7 talkSPORT (@talkSPORT) April 20, 2019 As a former Olympic gold medallist, unified super-middleweight and unified light-heavyweight champion, Ward achieved a phenomenal amount in boxing, hence his decision to call it a day with his faculties in tact.
However, when pushed by talkSPORTs Gareth A Davies and Adam Catterall, he couldnt guarantee for certain that he wouldnt make a ring return.
MSG was the big one that got away from me, Ward said while standing at Madison Square Garden where Terence Crawford beat Amir Khan on Saturday night.
1 Andre Ward defeated Carl Froch by unanimous decision in 2011 I know the executives and they were like, Man, we want you here.
I keep hearing that [fans want me back].
Im relaxing right now, Im enjoying myself.
But I will tell you I do miss it.
I miss it a lot.
The German centre-back produced a shocking defensive error as the Gunners lost 3-2 to the Eagles Shkodran Mustafi produced yet another defensive horror show at the Emirates as Arsenal lost 3-2 to Crystal Palace on Sunday afternoon.
The Gunners top-four hopes were dealt a serious blow after goals from Christian Benteke, Wilfried Zaha and James McArthur sealed a memorable win for the Eagles.
1 Mustafi was responsible for Palaces crucial second goal Mesut Ozil and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang netted for the hosts but the game hinged on a moment of madness from Mustafi.
With the match hanging in the balance at 1-1, the defender inexplicably failed to clear a seemingly-harmless ball over the top, allowing Zaha to pounce and score.
Things then turned from bad to worse as the German was booked for diving in his own half.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more Its not the first time Mustafi has cost Arsenal points and some fans have run out of patience.
Heres how Twitter reacted to the mistake: Mustafi come on defend it Ray Parlour (@RealRomfordPele) April 21, 2019 I think the FA should look at that Mustafi dive and take retrospective action.
I suggest a two year ban.
#afc Jack Whitehall (@jackwhitehall) April 21, 2019 I could defend better than Mustafi.
Without my glasses and on one leg.
Steph (@stephpgold) April 21, 2019 Live blog is refusing to work again until we sell Mustafi Arseblog Live (@arseblog_live) April 21, 2019 Mustafi now booked for diving in our own half.
Thats right people, booked diving in our own half.
This man knows no bounds.
The Gooner Talk (@TheGoonerTalkTv) April 21, 2019 Mustafi is so done at this club.
Having a player like him starting week in week out, you can never be sure of getting a result against any team.
He defends well, but guarantees errors and in the worst possible areas too.
LTArsenal (@ltarsenal) April 21, 2019 I dont want to see Mustafi in an Arsenal shirt ever again.
Enough mistakes.
Single handedly cost us today.
The Arsenal (@DareToWenger) April 21, 2019 We need to force Mustafi out of the club by any means, worst starting CB in the club's history.
Dezil Dez (@DezilDezz) April 21, 2019 Mustafi, Elneny, and Jenkinson should be packing their bags as we speak.
Eduardo Hagn (@EduardoHagn) April 21, 2019 Mustafi, Alonso, Young, Trippier.
Until one of these play for your club, you cant comprehend with the struggle.
fan account (@CIinicalTorress) April 21, 2019 One of Sokratis' best strengths is that he is not Mustafi.
What a huge miss.
LTArsenal (@ltarsenal) April 21, 2019
Christian Benteke, Wilfried Zaha and James McArthur bagged for the victorious visitors Christian Bentekes first goal in almost a year helped Crystal Palace sink Arsenal 3-2 and put a sizeable dent in the Gunners Premier League top four hopes.
Benteke fired his first goal in 20 games then laid on another for the tricky Wilfried Zaha as the Eagles stunned the Emirates to claim their eighth away league win this term.
5 James McArthur sent Palace into dreamland James McArthurs header sealed a fine victory that ended Arsenals 10-match winning league run at home and threw a spanner in the works in the Gunners bid for a top-four finish.
Mesut Ozil and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang struck for Arsenal, but those goals seemed little other than afterthoughts for Unai Emerys rudderless hosts.
Arsenal remain fourth in the table but are only ahead of fifth-placed Chelsea on goal difference, with Manchester United two points behind in sixth.
Shokdran Mustafi endured a day to forget, the Germany defender producing a string of mistakes which ultimately help gift Palace their win.
5 Christian Benteke put Palace ahead Bentekes first goal since Palaces 5-0 win over Leicester on April 28, 2018 kick-started a fine Eagles performance, with Roy Hodgsons men holding out for a hugely-impressive win.
Palace now boast the leagues sixth-best record on the road, Arsenal joining the likes of Manchester City and Wolves in finding no answers to the Eagles on the road.
Arsenal were booed off the field at half-time and rightly so.
The listless Gunners deserved to trail at the break, with Palace producing a measured away performance.
5 Mesut Ozil equalised early in the second half Mesut Ozil side-footed wide in an early opening but the Gunners conjured precious few genuine chances after that.
Martin Kelly flicked over when he should have opened the scoring after Scott Danns header into the six-yard box.
Arsenal failed to heed that warning however, and paid the price when Mustafi let Benteke stroll into the box unmarked and head home.
The German defender wrongly thought Benteke offside, and rather than play to the whistle appealed in vain while the Eagles Belgian hitman coasted into position and then nodded home.
LATEST ARSENAL NEWS slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target gossip Liverpool and Arsenal 'ready to launch bids' for in-demand Hazard REVEALED Premier League table: How the top-flight could change in midweek starlet 'Sorry, Spurs fans' - Cascarino names 'next Gareth Bale' and he plays for Arsenal REVEALED Every Premier League clubs run-in - hardest to easiest with three games to go REVEALED Alternative Premier League table after 35 games, based on expected goals PAPER TALK Liverpool and Arsenal join race for Hazard, Chelsea eye Coutinho, Pogba latest no pointing fingers Unai Emery refuses to criticise Shkodran Mustafi despite horror show 'pack your bags' Arsenal fans tear into Mustafi after horror show against Crystal Palace GUNNER COME BACK Former Arsenal midfielder set for technical director role at Emirates Benteke had a second effort chalked off for offside after Zahas fine through-ball as Palace continued to press.
And the visitors probably should have doubled their lead before the break, with Cheikhou Kouyate forcing a double save from Bernd Leno, then Benteke blasting over from Zahas fine tee-up.
Arsenal emerged transformed after the break, Ozil levelling almost immediately.
The Germany star ghosted onto Alexandre Lacazettes deft reverse ball and crashed in at the near post.
5 Wifried Zaha restored Crystal Palaces lead Palace rallied though, and Ainsley Maitland-Niles had to rescue Mustafi after the Germans missed header had gifted Zaha a run on goal.
The hapless Mustafis next mistake cost Arsenal dear however, as Zaha raced onto Bentekes flick and slotted home.
Mustafi could only watch on as Zaha wriggled round him to stroll through on goal, the Gunners man incorrectly expecting goalkeeper Leno to race out and mop up.
Palace refused to relent or wilt in the sunshine, and bolstered their lead when McArthur nodded home from a corner.
Aubameyang netted a neat second for Arsenal to tee up a tense finish, trading passes with Lacazette before prodding home.
But there was to be no recovery, Hodgsons men deservedly holding out.
After a goalless first-half, Liverpool showed their class to see off a spirited Cardiff side Liverpool returned to the top of the Premier League as they netted twice in the second-half to earn a 2-0 win at Cardiff.
Georginio Wijnaldum struck in the 57th minute to ease Liverpool nerves before substitute James Milner slotted home a penalty with nine minutes remaining after Mohamed Salah had been fouled.
5 Georginio Wijnaldum celebrates his opener The victory the sixth successive time Liverpool have won a Premier League game by scoring the winner in the second half saw them reclaim top spot from Manchester City after the champions had beaten Tottenham on Saturday.
Liverpool now hold a two-point advantage, but the lead could change hands again on Wednesday when City play their game in hand against Manchester United at Old Trafford.
LATEST PREMIER LEAGUE NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend red rival Watch Salah's frustrated reaction when Milner takes penalty off Liverpool star STONEWALL Mo Salah didnt dive and deserved penalty against Cardiff, says Danny Murphy VINNIE'S VERDICT Man United have got Alan Brazil syndrome they dont turn up REVEALED Premier League table: How the top-flight could change in midweek It was Liverpools ninth consecutive win in all competitions and gave them a new highest Premier League points tally, beating the 86 that Rafael Benitezs side managed in the 2008-09 season.
Cardiff had suffered a blow on Saturday when relegation rivals Brighton picked up a point from a goalless draw at Wolves This result leaves them three points from safety and Brighton do have a game in hand.
But Brighton have daunting fixtures against Arsenal, Tottenham and Manchester City and the committed nature of this performance will give Cardiff hope they can possibly win two of their final three games they might have to in order to survive.
5 The top of the Premier League table Liverpool predictably set up camp in the Cardiff half early on and Bluebirds boss Neil Warnock must have feared the battering he had spoken about before the game.
Neil Etheridge was forced to punch clear Naby Keitas pass as Salah sensed an opportunity, but Cardiff were compact and dogged and saw out the first 20 minutes with little concern.
Cardiff also carried a threat on the break as Nathaniel Mendez-Laing provided Trent Alexander-Arnold with one of the most difficult 45-minute periods of his season.
Mendez-Laing had shown Alexander-Arnold one clean pair of heels before he burst to the byline.
His cross found Junior Hoilett at the far post but the winger hesitated and Andy Robertson smothered the ball to safety.
5 Liverpool struggled to break down Cardiff in the first-half The first big chance arrived after 22 minutes when Sadio Mane slipped in Roberto Firmino, but the Brazilian cleared the crossbar with only Etheridge to beat.
Etheridge distinguished himself when he stuck out a foot to stop Salah and Liverpool were indebted to their own goalkeeper just before half-time.
Liverpool only partially cleared a corner and Victor Camarasa struck his effort into the ground.
Oumar Niasse, on loan from Liverpools Merseyside rivals Everton, turned the ball goalwards but Alisson Becker reacted smartly to turn over.
Cardiff had only operated at 20 per cent possession in the first half, but they also created the first chance of the second period.
5 Salah is fouled by Sean Morrison Mendez-Laings deep cross was just too high for Sean Morrison and the Cardiff captain directed his header onto the roof of the net.
But Liverpool pressure began to grow and Mane and Alexander-Arnold were both just off-target before the breakthrough came.
Alexander-Arnold had given his previous corners height and sent them deep, but this time he delivered it to the near post where Wijnaldum met it with the most perfect connection to give Etheridge no chance.
Jordan Henderson should have doubled the lead, but Liverpool escaped when Morrison missed from a few yards out after Alisson had failed to collect a corner.
5 Milner scores from the spot Liverpool were disrupted further by losing Fabinho, who had replaced Keita, almost instantly following a clash of heads and Milner was sent on to prove what was a decisive role.
The Reds got the breathing space they craved when Morrison had his hands all over Salah and the Egyptian fell to the ground.
Salah seemed as if he wanted to take the kick and become the third Liverpool player to score 20 in consecutive Premier League seasons, emulating Robbie Fowler and Luis Suarez.
But Milner took the ball and coolly dispatched the kick to take Liverpool top again.
David de Gea, Ander Herrera, Juan Mata and their representatives are reported to be unhappy Manchester Uniteds Spanish players are angry with the way they are treated at the club, reports claim.
David de Gea, Ander Herrera, Juan Mata and their representatives reportedly feel they are given different treatment compared to the English members of the squad.
2 The likes of David De Gea and Juan Mata are unhappy with their treatment Luke Shaw, Phil Jones, Chris Smalling and Ashley Young have all signed new contracts at Old Trafford this season but there has yet to be any similar deal for the Spaniards.
Herrera, 29, is close to joining PSG having failed to reach terms with United and De Gea has one year remaining on his contract and is still a target for long-term admirers Real Madrid, while Mata is also set to depart.
LATEST PREMIER LEAGUE NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend red rival Watch Salah's frustrated reaction when Milner takes penalty off Liverpool star STONEWALL Mo Salah didnt dive and deserved penalty against Cardiff, says Danny Murphy VINNIE'S VERDICT Man United have got Alan Brazil syndrome they dont turn up REVEALED Premier League table: How the top-flight could change in midweek According to the Daily Mail, the Spanish speakers have formed their own little clique at Old Trafford and it has left Paul Pogba in a difficult situation, as he grew up with English players such as Jesse Lingard in his first spell at United, but is close with a number of the foreign players.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer had even more disappointment to deal with as his side suffered their sixth defeat in eight matches after losing 4-0 to Everton.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has issued an apology to the supporters who travelled to watch Manchester United get battered 4-0 by Everton at Goodison Park.
The Norwegian described the performance as unworthy of a Red Devils team after goals from Richarlison, Gylfi Sigurdsson, Lucas Digne and Theo Walcott condemned his side to an embarrassing defeat.
Nonetheless, the away section chanted Solskjaers name at the full-time whistle and the United boss praised them for their unrelenting support.
Id like to apologise to the fans because, again, they were great, he told talkSPORT.
2 United were torn apart by Everton They kept supporting the players and thats the only thing we can take from today.
Thats not a worthy performance of a Manchester United team.
Gary Neville has questioned the desire of certain individuals following the result, but Solskjaer claims there is no lack of effort from his men.
The players want to win, theres nothing wrong with the effort.
We made a couple of bad decisions.
Theyre all simple goals and easy to deal with but I dont think thats desire.
No one wants to make mistakes but today we were full of them.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more Uniteds hopes of qualifying for next seasons Champions League suffered a huge blow after the thrashing on Sunday, however Solskjaer insists his side can still muster up a top-four finish.
Weve still got a chance with four wins.
We need 75 or 76 points to get top four and weve still got a chance but weve got to change quickly.
At Old Trafford we can beat anyone and we have to turn up as a Manchester United team players with energy, desire and hunger who want to play for that badge.
Thats what youll see.
2 Questions have been asked about the players attitude It doesnt get any easier for United as they welcome Manchester City and Chelsea to Old Trafford next week.
And Solskjaer warns his team will falter if they continue to perform like they did at Goodison Park.
We know that were in for criticism, but were also in for two massive games this week against City and Chelsea.
If we perform like this, well struggle.
The legendary defender couldn't hide his rage at the full-time whistle Gary Neville has ripped into the Manchester United players after their humiliating 4-0 thrashing at Everton on Easter Sunday.
The Red Devils resurrection under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has been brought to an abrupt halt in recent weeks and they have now suffered five consecutive away defeats in all competitions.
4 Ole Gunnar Solskjaer apologised to the travelling United faithful Goodison Park was the latest scene of Uniteds embarrassment, as goals from Richarlison, Gylfi Sigurdsson, Lucas Digne and Theo Walcott ruined this holiday weekend for the travelling supporters.
Before kick-off, Sky pundit Neville expressed his anger at recent events at the club.
This feeling was far from pacified by what he then witnessed over the next 90 minutes.
Im furious to be honest, the legend stated in the immediate aftermath, The fact that he [Ole Gunnar Solskjaer] had to go over [to the fans] and apologise for them.
Ive often said that clubs over the last seven years, if youve got weeds in the garden, then youve gotta get rid of them.
But theres some Japanese knotweed at that football club and its attacking the foundations of the house.
It needs dealing with properly.
Jose Mourinho the fans stuck with him, but wanted him out in the end.
They aint gonna want Ole Gunnar Solskjaer out.
Those players now, well and truly their heads are on the line.
4 Gary Neville was seething at full time I watched Manchester City yesterday, who Manchester United are trying to get to in terms of the top of the Premier League.
Bernardo Silva, Raheem Sterling, Kevin De Bruyne, David Silva.
Far better players than are in that Manchester United dressing room and who work twice as hard.
Everton ran 4km further in the first half.
Everton.
And then you watch Liverpool who are their biggest rivals they die for every single inch on the pictch.
And Manchester United players, honestly its embarrassing just watching some of those out there today.
Im absolutely furious.
Full belief in Ole to do what he needs to do, the club obviously will support him.
But theres a big problem and I have to say that performance today was rancid.
"I'm furious, to be honest with you.
"@GNev2 says @ManUtd's performance today was "embarrassing" and compares the work-rate to that of @LFC and @ManCity.
Watch Super Sunday live on Sky Sports PL now: https://t.co/HENVUzvZOk pic.twitter.com/UFXUwduXvd Sky Sports Premier League (@SkySportsPL) April 21, 2019 Manchester United began the season under Jose Mourinho, however he was sacked in December as results continued to deteriorate.
Gary Nevilles fellow club legend Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was brought in as his replacement on an inteirm basis and quickly brought about a resurgance which saw him appointed full time.
Now however, the Old Trafford side have been knocked out of the Champions League by Barcelona and look as though they will likely miss out on qualifying the competition next season as they are currently sat sixth in the Premier League table.
When asked to identify specific bad eggs, Neville continued: I dont need to name names, everyone knows who they are.
Theyre in the newspapers every single day, theyre on social media every single day.
4 Richarlisons superb overhead kick gave Everton the lead Every single player who does not have the attitude forget talent Ive myself fallen into the trap of talking about, Oh theyve got potential, theyve got talent.
Forget it.
If they dont work hard and havent got the attitude to run around in that shirt, get rid of them.
Watching players play for Liverpool and Manchester City theyre working their absolute backsides off every single week for their football club.
And Im watching Manchester United players on that football pitch walk around, saunter around, jogging back.
I saw it in Barcelona the other night in the Nou Camp.
4 David De Gea had a day to forget I dont mind losing games, I actually dont mind conceding goals, I dont mind them giving passes away I was one of the best at giving the ball away.
But do you know something?
You do not, whatever you do, drop below the standard of work ethic that is expected of that club.
Theyre falling below it.
We got a little bit of a bounce when Ole came into the job and everyone was claiming Jose Mourinho was a bad manager.
Jose Mourinho is one of the most successful managers of the last 20 years in football.
A great manager.
And in the end, he lost all faith in those players.
I would imagine now, the longer that Solskjaer watches those players, the more hell be losing faith in them because theyre letting him down and theyre letting the club down.
The duo's futures are a source of constant speculation - and Carragher argues that players shouldn't be able to hold the club to ransom Jamie Carragher says Manchester United should get rid of Paul Pogba and David De Gea if they continue to mess around over new contracts.
The pair are reportedly stalling over fresh deals and demanding salary increases amid growing speculation about their futures.
2 Pogba is reportedly wanted by Real Madrid De Geas deal runs out in 2020, while World Cup winning midfielder Pogba sees his contract up in 2021.
The duo are widely considered Uniteds star players but Carragher insists the club could do without them.
Ahead of their shocking 4-0 defeat to Everton, the former Liverpool defender told Sky Sports: When I was at Liverpool we werent at a team at the top winning things, and youd have a great player, Stevie Gerrard, Robbie Fowler, Luis Suarez, and you think you cant lose these players.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more I think about that with some of the United players, it feels like (David) De Geas messing around with the contract and (Paul) Pogbas the same.
(Anthony) Martials just signed one right now, there is this idea that these players cant leave your club and it will all fall apart, its Manchester United, one of the biggest clubs in the world and youre not exactly pulling up trees with them anyway!
Just make a decision, be a big club, make a proper decision.
2 De Geas contract expires next summer Get someone else, its Manchester United.
Never forget how big the club is and the power that theyve got.
Dont ever let these players dictate to the club about signing a contract, showing a poor attitude.
Get rid of them.
Richarlison, Gylfi Sigurdsson, Lucas Digne and Theo Walcott were all on target for Marco Silva's men Manchester Uniteds season took a drastic turn for the worse as they crashed to a humiliating 4-0 defeat at Everton their sixth defeat in their last eight games.
First-half goals from Richarlison and Gylfi Sigurdsson stunned Ole Gunnar Solskjaers lethargic side before Lucas Digne and Theo Walcott piled on the misery at Goodison Park.
The loss was Uniteds sixth in eight games in all competitions and turned up the heat on Solskjaer and his misfiring players, whose fortunes have slumped since the Norwegian was made permanent manager last month.
5 Richarlisons superb overhead kick gave Everton the lead 5 Lucas Digne scored Evertons third goal against United United, who remain sixth in the table, have now conceded 48 goals in the Premier League this term, their most in a top-flight campaign since 1979.
They arrived on Merseyside looking to bounce back from their midweek defeat in Barcelona and reinvigorate their top-four push but they never got started.
Romelu Lukaku, restored up front against his former club, struggled to get into the game and Paul Pogba did not impose himself in midfield.
Everton applied all the early pressure, winning a succession of corners and free-kicks that allowed them to create problems in the United box.
The hosts first serious opportunity fell to Richarlison following a set-piece.
David De Gea produced a brilliant reflex save to keep out the Brazilians first effort and the striker turned the rebound wide.
5 Ole Gunnar Solskjaer apologises to the travelling United faithful after the thrashing at Everton Richarlison was soon to get another chance, however, and this time he made it count.
Thirteen minutes had gone when Lucas Digne launched a long throw into the area and Dominic Calvert-Lewin flicked on.
Richarlison met it with an acrobatic volley that flew into the net.
United got some relief when Pogba launched a long ball from inside his own half and Marcus Rashford raced in on goal but the England forwards half-volley flew narrowly over.
Rashford also blasted a free-kick over but Everton soon regained control.
Sigurdsson doubled the lead from a quick counter-attack in the 28th minute.
Nemanja Matic backed off enough to allow Sigurdsson to cut inside and unleash a fierce low drive from 30 yards.
5 David De Gea had a day to forget as United were thumped at Goodison Park De Gea was slow to react and the ball shot into the bottom corner.
Things could have got worse as Phil Jones needed to produce a fine challenge to cut out another break and Richarlison fired another effort at De Gea after a Diogo Dalot mistake.
The interval failed to re-energise United, who conceded again 11 minutes after the restart.
Everton had suffered a blow by losing Richarlison to injury but it did not dampen their threat and Digne lashed in a long-range shot after De Gea punched clear from a corner.
5 Manchester United fell to a sixth defeat in eight games at Goodison Park De Gea also needed to react quickly to kick clear a Sigurdsson corner off the line as it swerved dangerously towards the near post.
Yet there was no hiding place for United.
Walcott, who replaced Richarlison, added the fourth as Everton were again allowed to break all too quickly.
He was released by Sigurdsson and showed his composure as he closed in on goal to slip the ball past De Gea.
MOST READ IN FOOTBALL overhaul How Man United could line-up with targets next season, including Felix and Pepe over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend PAPER TALK Liverpool and Arsenal join race for Hazard, Chelsea eye Coutinho, Pogba latest how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford REVEALED Predicted - how the Premier League table will look at the end of the season transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target street fight Shocking video of fan being knocked out in supporter brawl outside Turf Moor REVAMP How Liverpool could look next season without Mane, but with three big signings United started to look desperate as Anthony Martial theatrically fell to the ground in the penalty area after minimal contract.
The Frenchman blasted another chance wide of target and Rashford shot over before the game petered out.
The United fans voiced their support for Solskjaer but the teams form is a serious concern with a tricky derby against Manchester City and a clash with Chelsea in the next week.
The Brazilian spent four seasons with Arsenal and was part of the famous 'Invincible' side of 2003/04 Former Arsenal midfielder Edu is in line to become Arsenals technical director, according to reports.
The 40-year-old is currently coordinator of the Brazilian FA national teams, with his former side viewing him as the perfect candidate to become their technical director, the Daily Mail claim.
1 Edu is set to return to Arsenals technical director The Gunners are still on the hunt to fill the position after they were snubbed by Monchi last month, who opted to return to Sevilla.
Arsenal are prepared to play the waiting game for Edu, who would not move to the Emirates until after Brazils Copa America campaign finishes in the summer, where they are the host nation.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend red rival Watch Salah's frustrated reaction when Milner takes penalty off Liverpool star STONEWALL Mo Salah didnt dive and deserved penalty against Cardiff, says Danny Murphy VINNIE'S VERDICT Man United have got Alan Brazil syndrome they dont turn up REVEALED Premier League table: How the top-flight could change in midweek Edu spent four years with Arsenal, before departing to Valencia in 2005.
He was part of the famous Invincibles squad of 2003-04 and won two Premier League titles and two FA Cups.
His arrival is expected to coincide with the arrival of fellow Brazilian, forward Gabriel Martinelli, who Arsenal are keen to bring in as their first summer signing.
Amir Khan and Terence Crawford engaged in a brief spat during their post-fight press conference on Saturday night.
The US champion outclassed his British opponent for six rounds before he and his team called a premature end in odd fashion.
3 Terence Crawford got the better of Amir Khan in New York Crawford had dropped and dominated Khan early on, then left him reeling with a brutal low blow.
The referee was willing to give the challenger five minutes to regroup, however after consulting with his trainer Virgil Hunter, the bout was waved off.
As a result, many fans subsequently accused Amir Khan of quitting, something he denied at the presser.
I would never quit, he began, Id rather get knocked out.
Im one of them fighters whod rather get knocked out in fights and I have got knocked out because Ive tried to win fights.
3 Amir Khan was in serious pain after the low blow from Terence Crawford At this point, Terence Crawford interrupted: You didnt quit?
Tell the truth.
Khan, taken aback, replied: Nah, I didnt quit, Im telling youu I never quit.
So what happened, asked the champion , What happened?
I was hit with a low shot, the beaten challenger answered.
3 The referee waved it off after Amir Khan and his corners decision Crawford then mocked: You quit with a shot in the leg?
Before an irritated Khan responded: In the leg?
It was in the balls.
At this point Crawford burst out laughing before admitting: It was low, it was low.
You can watch the video of the exchange below.
All you need to know to tune into the action at the Cardiff City Stadium Cardiff host Liverpool today in a huge Premier League clash at both ends of the table.
Liverpool can return to the summit of the top-flight with a win in south Wales.
2 Mohamed Salah and Liverpool take on Cardiff today Cardiff, meanwhile, need points if they are to beat the drop.
The clash will be live on talkSPORT and heres how you can tune in.
LATEST PREMIER LEAGUE NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend red rival Watch Salah's frustrated reaction when Milner takes penalty off Liverpool star STONEWALL Mo Salah didnt dive and deserved penalty against Cardiff, says Danny Murphy VINNIE'S VERDICT Man United have got Alan Brazil syndrome they dont turn up REVEALED Premier League table: How the top-flight could change in midweek THEATRICAL Vinnie Jones says Mo Salah went to the drama school I never went to' starlet 'Sorry, Spurs fans' - Cascarino names 'next Gareth Bale' and he plays for Arsenal REVEALED Every Premier League clubs run-in - hardest to easiest with three games to go aussie god Liverpool legend Robbie Fowler to be appointed Brisbane Roar manager Cardiff vs Liverpool: How to listen Full commentary from the Cardiff City Stadium will be live on talkSPORT, with our coverage getting underway from 3:30pm.
Mark Saggers will bring you all the build-up with Nigel Adderley and Ray Houghton on commentary duty.
To tune in to the top-flight action just click here for the live stream or click the radio player below.
You can also listen through the talkSPORT App, on DAB Digital Radio or on MW 1053 or 1089.
For more information about how to listen LIVE on talkSPORT click here.
Cardiff vs Liverpool: Kick-off time The Premier League clash will get underway at 4pm on Sunday, April 21.
Liverpool claimed a 4-1 win in the reverse fixture in October thanks to Sadio Manes brace and goals from Mohamed Salah and Xherdan Shaqiri.
2 Neil Warnocks Cardiff face Liverpool today Cardiff vs Liverpool: Confirmed line-ups Cardiff: Etheridge, Peltier, Morrison, Manga, Bennett, Gunnarsson, Ralls, Mendez-Laing, Camarasa, Hoilett, Niasse.
Subs: Smithies, Cunningham, Bacuna, Harris, Murphy, Reid, Zohore.
Liverpool: Alisson, Alexander-Arnold, Matip, Van Dijk, Robertson, Henderson, Wijnaldum, Keita, Mane, Salah, Firmino.
The United legend questioned the current squad's attitude following Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's 'reality check' comments Gary Neville has slammed the attitude of Manchester Uniteds players in an extraordinary rant about the clubs current situation.
Before the shocking 4-0 defeat to Everton, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer had issued a wake up call to his men following a run of five defeats in their last seven games.
2 Questions have been asked about the players attitude The Norwegian called for a reality check and Neville suggests the players are showing their true colours.
Yeah Im simmering to be honest with you and my bloods about to boil, Neville told Sky Sports.
I didnt buy into that these players were always fantastic when they started to win for Ole in those two, three months.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more If you think about the game we did against Liverpool a few weeks ago where everything was perfect, Ole had got the players playing again, Jose Mourinho was a bump, and basically it was just down to Jose.
Now were seeing what Ole talked about on Friday is that there is a reality check and I think its a reality check for all of us.
What Louis [Saha] alludes to there about players not running back properly, I went to Barcelona on Tuesday night and watched the game and I saw players pretending to run back.
You know, making it look like theyre running back quickly, doing that little jogging one.
Oh its rubbish.
And I think what were seeing now is what the players are.
Theres a lot of distractions around contracts and this is a big week, he added.
LATEST TRANSFER NEWS MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target concerns Paul Pogba's wage demands 'could block' potential Real Madrid switch gossip Liverpool and Arsenal 'ready to launch bids' for in-demand Hazard gossip Chelsea want 'perfect replacement' Coutinho if Eden Hazard leaves this summer overhaul How Man United could line-up with targets next season, including Felix and Pepe MORE FIREPOWER Sam Allardyce outlines what Everton need to become top six club PAPER TALK Liverpool and Arsenal join race for Hazard, Chelsea eye Coutinho, Pogba latest Ill keep my counsel in terms of individuals for another week, because to be fair they have had some difficult games and have been on an amazing run.
But its Everton today, Manchester City midweek, Chelsea next Sunday.
Next Sunday evening is the time to reflect because Manchester United will know next Sunday evening essentially if theyre going to achieve Champions League football this season.
"I'm simmeringmy blood is about to boil.
"@GNev2 and @Carra23 look at the current situation at @ManUtd after Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's comments about a "reality check" at the club.
Watch live on Sky Sports Premier League or follow online here: https://t.co/oKCJZOLlDO pic.twitter.com/PrEoFAcmxz Sky Sports Premier League (@SkySportsPL) April 21, 2019 Its a big week for them, Ole still said in that interview that the attitude was good.
But he hasnt changed his language, which he has done this week, without seeing things that have concerned him.
When he says the players need a reality check, some of them, we can see it with our own eyes whats going on there.
We know whats going on, we can feel it and smell it, and thats why my blood is boiling.
But I think its another week if you like before we go for it fully.
The Sky Sports pundits were involved in a heated debate when discussing the Frenchman Paul Pogba is a tremendous talent there is no denying that.
However, he proves to be a decisive figure who splits opinion among Manchester United fans and many others within the game.
2 Jamie Carragher and Gary Neville we not in agreement over Paul Pogba Therefore, there was little wonder why he was again the major talking point on Sky Sports prior to Evertons clash with United on Sunday.
Gary Neville and Jamie Carragher were involved in a heated debate when discussing the Frenchman, with the former insisting that for all Pogbas flaws he is still capable of lifting United out of the wilderness.
He is a leader.
Hes actually a good lad.
Look, Manchester United are in the wilderness, Neville told Sky Sports.
When are Man United going to be successful again?
When I think back to the mid 80s, Bryan Robson carried United through the wilderness.
He decided to stay with the club and he was rewarded in the early 90s with a couple of Premier League titles.
2 Paul Pogbas long term future at Manchester United remains uncertain Pogba has got the capability to carry United through this wilderness.
I believe you can build a team around him.
What he has to decide is whether he wants to be that player who gets Man United back to the top again.
He has the ability to do it.
He is the one player in the squad who is world class.
The Robson comparison in particular appeared to irk Carragher, who also believes that Pogba is not the type of player the Red Devils can build their side around due to his inconsistency.
I dont agree with you when you make the comparison with Bryan Robson, he said.
My problem with Pogba is he came in as a midfielder and when you think of the greats like Robson, Roy Keane, Yaya Toure and Steven Gerrard those people drove those teams on.
MOST READ IN FOOTBALL overhaul How Man United could line-up with targets next season, including Felix and Pepe over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford PAPER TALK Liverpool and Arsenal join race for Hazard, Chelsea eye Coutinho, Pogba latest REVEALED Predicted - how the Premier League table will look at the end of the season street fight Shocking video of fan being knocked out in supporter brawl outside Turf Moor transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target REVAMP How Liverpool could look next season without Mane, but with three big signings My problem with Pogba is not whether he is world class, its that hes either 9/10 or 4/10.
Bryan Robson was 7 or 8 out of ten pretty much every week and sometimes better.
There is no in between with Pogba.
I dont think you can build a team around him because hes so hit and miss.
Players who you build teams around are those midfielders Ive already spoken about.
You know what you are going to get every week.
Pogbas long-term future at Old Trafford remains uncertain, and until the day comes when he does depart the Premier League giants he will no doubt continue to be a regular topic of discussion.
The Brit was beaten in six rounds by a pound-for-pound great, but insists he didn't quit Amir Khan has now disclosed that he suffered an elbow injury prior to his loss against Terence Crawford on Saturday night in New York.
The 32-year-old was outclassed by the American champion in the early rounds before the bout came to a bizarre conclusion.
3 Amir Khan was beaten by Terence Crawford in New York Prior to the finish, many observers picked up on Khans visible discomfort with his right arm as he shook it in between rounds.
A couple of hours later, he exclusively told talkSPORTs Adam Catterall: Ive had some problems in training camp with the arm.
Its all good, I dont know what it is to be honest with you.
Since I had my hand operation, because Im hitting a lot harder, I think the muscles around the arm are not gonna be as strong.
Because Im hitting harder with my right hand, I dont know, Ive just got some problems in my elbow area.
Im sure itll be fine, thats not the issue in the fight, I wouldve still continued.
3 Amir Khan was in serious pain after the low blow from Terence Crawford Ultimately the fight ended because Amir Khan and his corner decided hed had enough.
In the sixth, the Brit was hit by an egregious low blow, but despite being given five minutes to recoup, they opted to stop the contest.
Some fans have subsequently accused Khan of quitting, a point he vehemently denies: Im not one to quit from a fight, Im not a quitter, Ive never been a quitter.
Id rather have been knocked out to be honest with you, after hearing what people are saying.
I obviously didnt feel too good and obviously Virgil called it.
3 The referee waved it off after Amir Khan and his corners decision When asked if he would fight on, the former world champion insisted: Yeah definitely, I love boxing.
So definitely I am gonna still fight and I am gonna come back stronger.
Phelan want to leave his job as No 2 at Manchester United to become the club's new director of football Michael Carrick is on the verge of signing a new contract at Manchester United, but Mike Phelans future at Old Trafford remains in doubt.
The Mirror claim former United midfielder Carrick and fellow coach Kieran McKenna, both of whom were on the coaching staff under Jose Mourinho before Ole Gunnar Solskjaer replaced him in December, will sign new deals in the next few days.
1 Solskjaer, along with Mike Phelan and Michael Carrick, have brought the feel-good factor back to Old Trafford However, Phelan, who had a spell as a player at Old Trafford in the early 1990s and was also a key ally of Manchester United great Sir Alex Fergsuon, has still not signed a contract to stay.
The 56-year-old is currently contracted to Australian A-League side Central Coast Mariners, where he is the sporting director.
And Phelan is believed to have told pals that he is interested in acquiring the same position at United.
The Red Devils have been looking at appointing a director of football since last year.
MOST READ IN FOOTBALL overhaul How Man United could line-up with targets next season, including Felix and Pepe over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend PAPER TALK Liverpool and Arsenal join race for Hazard, Chelsea eye Coutinho, Pogba latest how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford REVEALED Predicted - how the Premier League table will look at the end of the season street fight Shocking video of fan being knocked out in supporter brawl outside Turf Moor REVAMP How Liverpool could look next season without Mane, but with three big signings transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target The board want an experienced operator who can help build a clear player/recruitment strategy which would link up the first team and academy.
The former Hull boss believes he has the know-how and ability to take up such a role and is therefore considering putting his hat into the ring for the position.
Speaking earlier this month, Solskjaer was confident Phelan would soon put pen to paper.
He said: I think Ed [Woodward, executive vice-chairman] and Mike will get things sorted very soon.
Hes a key part of the club.
Van Gaal had recently said the perception of Solskjaer changing tactics was 'fake news' Louis van Gaal has accused Ole Gunnar Solksjaer of parking the bus against bigger teams in his latest critical outburst against the Manchester United boss.
United have have lost five of their last seven games, including being dumped out of the FA Cup and more recently the Champions League, where they were beaten 3-0 against Barcelona at the Nou Camp on Wednesday.
2 The momentum has slowed somewhat for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer at Manchester United Van Gaal, who won the FA Cup with United before being dismissed after two years in charge in 2016, branded the perceived tactical changes made by the former striker as fake news in an interview with BBC Sport, back in March the same month Solskjaer was handed the job on a permanent basis.
And now the Dutchman has taken aim at his former employers once more, saying they are not playing the Sir Alex Ferguson way.
I am not there but there does look to be a change and the atmosphere seems to be better.
It is also true that Solskjaer has changed Paul Pogbas position and put him into an area where he is much more important, he told the Mirror.
LATEST PREMIER LEAGUE NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend red rival Watch Salah's frustrated reaction when Milner takes penalty off Liverpool star STONEWALL Mo Salah didnt dive and deserved penalty against Cardiff, says Danny Murphy VINNIE'S VERDICT Man United have got Alan Brazil syndrome they dont turn up REVEALED Premier League table: How the top-flight could change in midweek But the way Manchester United are playing now is not the way Ferguson played.
It is defensive, counter-attacking football.
If you like it, you like it.
If you think it is more exciting than my boring attacking, OK.
But it is not my truth.
He plays against all the big teams like that.
The emphasis is more on defending than on attacking or wanting to play dominant football.
I actually call it parking the bus.
Ole does it not just outside the 18-yard box.
2 Louis van Gaal has been critical of Solskjaers tactics He parks the bus right in front of [goalkeeper] David De Gea.
He added: But if Man United want to be a dominant force in Europe again and in England they have to have a different playing style.
United travel to Goodison Park to take on Everton and could leapfrog Chelsea and move into fifth.
All you need to know to tune into the action at Goodison Park Everton and Manchester United go head-to-head today and it will be live on talkSPORT.
United need a win to keep their top-four hopes alive while the Toffees are still looking to finish the season as the best of the rest in the top-flight.
2 Manchester United stars Paul Pogba and Marcus Rashford will be in action against Everton The Red Devils will be eager to bounce back from their disappointing Champions League exit at Barcelona in midweek.
The clash will be live on talkSPORT and heres how you can tune in.
LATEST PREMIER LEAGUE NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend red rival Watch Salah's frustrated reaction when Milner takes penalty off Liverpool star STONEWALL Mo Salah didnt dive and deserved penalty against Cardiff, says Danny Murphy VINNIE'S VERDICT Man United have got Alan Brazil syndrome they dont turn up REVEALED Premier League table: How the top-flight could change in midweek THEATRICAL Vinnie Jones says Mo Salah went to the drama school I never went to' starlet 'Sorry, Spurs fans' - Cascarino names 'next Gareth Bale' and he plays for Arsenal REVEALED Every Premier League clubs run-in - hardest to easiest with three games to go aussie god Liverpool legend Robbie Fowler to be appointed Brisbane Roar manager Everton vs Man United: How to listen Full commentary from Goodison Park will be live on talkSPORT, with our coverage getting underway from 1pm.
Mark Saggers will bring you all the build-up with Sam Matterface and Micky Gray on commentary duty.
To tune in to the top-flight action just click here for the live stream or click the radio player below.
You can also listen through the talkSPORT App, on DAB Digital Radio or on MW 1053 or 1089.
For more information about how to listen LIVE on talkSPORT click here.
Everton vs Man United: Kick-off time The Premier League clash will get underway at 1:30pm on Sunday, April 21.
United claimed a 2-1 win in the reverse fixture in October thanks to goals from Paul Pogba and Anthony Martial at Old Trafford.
2 Richarlison and Everton host Man United today Everton vs Man United: Confirmed line-ups Everton: Pickford; Coleman, Keane, Zouma, Digne; Gueye, Schneiderlin; Richarlison, Sigurdsson, Bernard; Calvert-Lewin.
Subs: Stekelenburg, Jagielka, Walcott, Tosun, McCarthy, Davies, Lookman Man United: De Gea, Lindelof, Jones, Pogba, Lukaku, Rashford, Martial, Smalling, Fred, Dalot, Matic Subs: Romero, Sanchez, Mata, Lingard, Pereira, Young, McTominay
Almada, 17 is a regular starter for Velez Sarsfield in Argentina's Primera Division and City are willing to pay 20m Manchester City are hopeful of signing Argentine teenager Thiago Almada in a 20million deal, according to reports.
Almada, who turns 18 on Friday, is the latest South American to be dubbed the new Lionel Messi and starts regularly for Velez Sarsfield in Argentinas Primera Division.
Reports suggest Pep Guardiola has sent scouts to watch Almada and he is one of the City boss top targets.
1 Thiago Almada (right) is wanted by Man City The Premier League side are prepared to sign him for a huge fee, despite his age, in order to get him a work permit if they can do the deal, according to The Sun.
However, should City fail to secure a work permit, they would loan Almada to Spanish partners club Ginoa, who they will use quite regularly in the next couple of years as part of the plan to capture the next crop of talented players.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend red rival Watch Salah's frustrated reaction when Milner takes penalty off Liverpool star STONEWALL Mo Salah didnt dive and deserved penalty against Cardiff, says Danny Murphy VINNIE'S VERDICT Man United have got Alan Brazil syndrome they dont turn up REVEALED Premier League table: How the top-flight could change in midweek Almada has shown is versatility going forward, playing out wide and centrally, but is predominantly an attacking midfielder.
This season, Almada who has been causing plenty of excitement in his homeland, has made 16 appearances for the club, scoring three goals with a further two assists as well.
Pep Guardiola's men bounced back from Champions League disappointment with a 1-0 victory over Tottenham on Saturday at the Etihad Manchester City midfielder Bernardo Silva has welcomed the pressure of the title race as Pep Guardiolas men get set for a critical derby at Manchester United this week.
Wednesdays trip to Old Trafford appears to be the biggest hurdle left facing City as they chase another Premier League crown following Saturdays tense 1-0 win over Tottenham.
3 Bernardo Silva is relishing the pressure of the title race Much has been made over whether United fans might actually prefer loathed neighbours City to win the title rather than arch-rivals Liverpool, but Silva does not expect that to affect players thinking.
United are in a tight battle themselves for a top-four spot and Silva thinks they will be just as hungry for the points.
The Portuguese midfielder said: We are so happy with the win (on Saturday) and now its on to another tough one against Manchester United which I think will be crucial for the title.
Its a big game for us, a big game for them.
They need points to be in the top four and we need them to fight for the title.
So we expect a very difficult game against one of the best sides in England.
3 Pep Guardiolas men lie one point ahead of Liverpool in the title race They will be motivated to beat us and we look forward to it.
We know we need the win, and the pressure is on but thats a good thing.
Silva played an influential part as City gained a measure of revenge for their midweek Champions League exit at the hands of Spurs.
His clever cross in the fifth minute opened up the Spurs defence and Sergio Aguero nodded across goal for 18-year-old Phil Foden to head what proved the clincher at the Etihad Stadium.
Spurs had numerous chances to level but City held on in a tense and scrappy finale for three vital points.
The major downside for City was another injury to Kevin De Bruyne, who limped off in the first half.
The club are awaiting an assessment.
3 Guardiolas men face a crunch trip to arch rivals Manchester United on Wednesday night Silva said: It was a massive win, very important for us, especially after the defeat in the Champions League.
We wanted to give a response with our fans here at home and I think we did it in the best way possible in difficult conditions.
It was very warm outside and we played a very tough team with less than 72 hours to recover.
It was three big points.
Silva is one of three City players nominated for the PFA Player of the Year award along with Raheem Sterling and Aguero.
The 24-year-old, who is also on the shortlist for Young Player of Year, said: Of course I would like one of us three to win, that would be nice, but what really matters is we win the Premier League and FA Cup.
MOST READ IN FOOTBALL overhaul How Man United could line-up with targets next season, including Felix and Pepe over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford PAPER TALK Liverpool and Arsenal join race for Hazard, Chelsea eye Coutinho, Pogba latest REVEALED Predicted - how the Premier League table will look at the end of the season street fight Shocking video of fan being knocked out in supporter brawl outside Turf Moor transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target REVAMP How Liverpool could look next season without Mane, but with three big signings Spurs now have a Champions League semi-final against Ajax to look forward to but defeat at the weekend damaged their chances of qualifying for that competition again.
Midfielder Eric Dier said: We have to win every game and we want to win every game.
That would always be the objective, no matter what the situation, but of course with the Champions League being so important to us we have to win all our games.
We want to experience nights like we did the other day and to do that we need to be in the Champions League next year, so I think our motivation is quite clear.
Man United were dumped out of the Champions League on Wednesday and a number of players have disappointed Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has issued a stern warning to Alexis Sanchez and his Manchester United team-mates following their recent run of poor performances, telling them there is no place to hide.
United have lost five of their last seven matches in all competitions and were dumped out of the Champions League last Tuesday by Barcelona at the Nou Camp, losing 4-0 on aggregate.
2 Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has issued a wake up call to his players In the Premier League, they are sixth, three points behind Arsenal in the final Champions League place with five matches remaining.
The Norwegian, who returned to United on an interim basis in December before being given the job on a permanent basis in March, has acknowledged the team needs to be rebuilt and one of the players who could be moved on in the summer is Sanchez.
LATEST PREMIER LEAGUE NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend red rival Watch Salah's frustrated reaction when Milner takes penalty off Liverpool star STONEWALL Mo Salah didnt dive and deserved penalty against Cardiff, says Danny Murphy VINNIE'S VERDICT Man United have got Alan Brazil syndrome they dont turn up REVEALED Premier League table: How the top-flight could change in midweek The former Arsenal forward has scored just twice all season and has struggled for much of his spell at Old Trafford since joining the club in January 2018 with Solskjaer making it clear what he expects next season.
As a club we cannot carry players, the United manager said.
Everyone has to take ownership, keep improving, show that hunger that you want to get better individually and as a team.
Im not just talking about Alexis.
Everyone is under the same demands.
But if we are talking about Alexis, he hasnt been lucky with injuries.
2 Alexis Sanchez has been a major disappointment at Manchester United Since I came in, hes had two long-term injuries and that hasnt been beneficial to him.
Some other players have had injuries as well.
But I see the characters we have.
I am looking at who we should keep, who we should move on.
Alexis has got a fantastic talent when hes at his best level.
Now we want him performing for us.
When youre out there, there is no hiding place and everyone can see where your levels are at.
Were also working on training with a fantastic staff.
Ive got to create this culture that we want.
United travel to Goodison Park to take on Everton on Easter Sunday, and a win will move them back into fifth ahead of Chelsea, who host Burnley on Monday night.
The Eagles are resigned to losing their star man this summer, but are desperate to keep hold of youngster Aaron Wan-Bissaka Crystal Palace have slapped an 80million price tag on Wilfried Zaha, according to reports.
The Mail on Sunday claim that the Eagles are prepared to let the wantaway forward leave this summer, but only for the right price.
2 Crystal Palace are prepared to sell Wilfried Zaha for 80m this summer Zaha recently revealed he wants to leave Selhurst Park in order to realise his ambition of playing Champions League football.
And the former Manchester United man is likely to get his wish granted this summer, with a host of Europes top clubs chasing his signature.
Arsenal have shown a long-standing interest in the 26-year-old, with club representatives watching him on numerous occasions.
Borussia Dortmund and Inter Milan have also expressed an interest in Zaha, while Tottenham are unlikely to afford a deal to sign the tricky playmaker.
2 Aaron Wan-Bissaka is regarded as one of the best youngsters in the world PALACE'S RECORD WITH AND WITHOUT ZAHA Palace have a win percentage of more than double when Wilfried Zaha plays compared to when he doesnt, underlining his value to the Eagles side WITH/WITHOUT: GAMES: 59/13 GOALS: 20/2 DEFEATS:22/11 GOALS PER GAME: 1.3/0.5 WIN PERCENTAGE: 34/15 The ongoing situation with Zaha is likely to have an impact on team-mate Aaron Wan-Bissakas future.
The Palace right back, 21, is regarded as one of the best young talents in the world and is attracting interest from the Premier Leagues elite.
There is, however, a huge reluctance at Selhurst Park to let both Zaha and Wan-Bissaka leave in the same summer, with club hierarchy fully aware of the backlash theyd receive from supporters.
MOST READ IN FOOTBALL overhaul How Man United could line-up with targets next season, including Felix and Pepe over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford PAPER TALK Liverpool and Arsenal join race for Hazard, Chelsea eye Coutinho, Pogba latest REVEALED Predicted - how the Premier League table will look at the end of the season street fight Shocking video of fan being knocked out in supporter brawl outside Turf Moor transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target REVAMP How Liverpool could look next season without Mane, but with three big signings Only a huge offer for both Wan-Bissaka and Zaha will tempt the board into selling them both in the same window.
Palace fended off interest for Zaha last summer, with the club persuading him to sign a new five-year deal worth 130,000 a week thus making him the highest earner at the club.
But in light of Zahas recent comments in the media, it seems a matter of when, not if, the attacker departs the Premier League outfit.
The Eagles academy products have been in outstanding form for Roy Hodgson's men so far this season Arsenal boss Unai Emery has heaped praise on Crystal Palace academy duo Wilfried Zaha and Aaron Wan-Bissaka and insists he has plenty of his own young players pushing for a place in his squad.
The Gunners host Roy Hodgsons Palace on Sunday and are looking to maintain their push for a top-four finish.
2 Wilfried Zaha, left, and Aaron Wan-Bissaka have both been outstanding for Crystal Palace this season While the Eagles have endured difficult spells during the campaign, Zaha and Wan-Bissaka have often stood out as star performers.
They both came through the ranks at Selhurst Park and have been linked with moves away this summer.
Emery singled them out for praise on the eve of the Emirates Stadium clash and explained how nurturing young talent is an important part of his job.
They are two very good players, he said of Zaha and Wan-Bissaka.
They are improving a lot and giving Palace a big performance for their success.
We have here also young players coming from the academy, training with us, playing some matches with us.
2 Unai Emery is a big fan of the Eagles duo My responsibility is to work with them and give them the possibility to train with us and show the capacity to get into the first team with regularity and also in the future show they can be important players for us.
Arsenal return to north London having picked up two key away wins.
They clinched a nervy 1-0 victory over 10-man Watford on Monday before securing progression into the semi-finals of the Europa League with another 1-0 success at Napoli.
Until then there had been questions about Emerys side away from home but he believes they have provided the answer especially after keeping consecutive away clean sheets for the first time since January 2017.
I think we are being consistent and I think we are being consistent because we can find our best competitive way in each match, the Spaniard added.
MOST READ IN FOOTBALL overhaul How Man United could line-up with targets next season, including Felix and Pepe over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford PAPER TALK Liverpool and Arsenal join race for Hazard, Chelsea eye Coutinho, Pogba latest REVEALED Predicted - how the Premier League table will look at the end of the season street fight Shocking video of fan being knocked out in supporter brawl outside Turf Moor transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target REVAMP How Liverpool could look next season without Mane, but with three big signings The first thing is thinking about our game plan then adapting for the opposition but our process sometimes need patience and good results and the players, their focus now is very clear and in this moment they are very concentrated to use our best ideas.
For example, defensively, clean sheets in the last matches were very important and they take confidence from the clean sheet and afterwards we didnt lose our capacity in attack to score and win the matches.
Arsenal will be without the suspended Sokratis Papastathopoulos, while Aaron Ramsey misses out having limped off in Naples with a muscular problem.
talkSPORT.com round up all the latest transfer news and football gossip from Sunday's papers and online talkSPORT.com round up all the latest transfer news and football gossip from Sundays papers and online Crystal Palace want a whopping 80m for Wilfried Zaha but they are reluctant to sell both the Ivory Coast international and right-back Aaron Wan-Bissaka, 21, this summer.
(Mail) Ajax midfielder Hakim Ziyech, 26, is attracting interest from Manchester City, Manchester United, Arsenal and Liverpool and is available for just 25m (Mirror) 4 Wilfried Zaha wants to play Champions League football City are planning a move for Benficas teenage sensation Joao Felix, 19, and have also been monitoring Eintracht Frankfurts 21-year-old forward Luka Jovic.
(Goal.com) Barcelona are set to abandon a move for Manchester United striker Marcus Rashford, because they feel it would be too expensive to lure him away from Old Trafford.
(Express) Tottenham are increasingly confident that Real Madrid target Christian Eriksen, 27, will pledge his future to the north London side and sign a new long-term contract.
(Goal.com) Elsewhere, United goalkeeper David de Gea, 28, is said to be growing increasingly frustrated with the clubs refusal to meet his long-standing request for a pay rise.
(Times) 4 David De Gea is growing increasingly frustrated at Manchester United Real Madrids Gareth Bale could opt for a lucrative move to China this summer but only if his current deal, understood to be worth over 500,000 a week is matched.
The 29-year-old Welshman is thus prepared to run down his contract at the Bernabeu, which runs until 2022.
(Mirror) Napoli want to sign Kieran Trippier, but fear they could be priced out of a move for the England defender, who Tottenham value around the 40m mark (Sun) Chelsea have rejected a 10m bid from Brighton for England Under-20 defender Reece James, 19, who has also been linked with Crystal Palace.
(Sun) MOST READ IN FOOTBALL overhaul How Man United could line-up with targets next season, including Felix and Pepe over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford PAPER TALK Liverpool and Arsenal join race for Hazard, Chelsea eye Coutinho, Pogba latest REVEALED Predicted - how the Premier League table will look at the end of the season street fight Shocking video of fan being knocked out in supporter brawl outside Turf Moor transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target REVAMP How Liverpool could look next season without Mane, but with three big signings 4 Gareth Bales time in Madrid has turned sour Manchester City are set to hand John Stones a new contract to underline to the 24-year-old defender he still has a long-term future at the Etihad.
(Mirror) Manchester United assistant Mike Phelan has not agreed a contract extension at Old Trafford, and is believed to favour a sporting director role.
(Mirror) Sunderland owner Stewart Donald has turned down a shock 70m bid from a mystery Malaysian.
(Sun)
It wasn't WWE and it wasn't All Elite Wrestling, but CM Punk got in the squared circle for the first time in five years CM Punk left the WWE and seemingly wrestling in 2014 and never looked back.
That is until now, at a random independent show, nonetheless.
1 CM Punk as the WWE champion at the height of his run Punk, real name Phillip Brooks, went on to carve out an MMA career and went 0-2 in UFC in rather unspectacular fashion.
He has said on many occasions that he has no interest in returning to wrestling and the rumours linking him with a move to All Elite Wrestling were intense a few months ago.
Instead of making a big-time return, the former WWE champion turned up at an independent show on Friday night under a mask it should be noted delivered his finishing move the GTS and departed again.
While the clip leaves a lot open to interpretation, a picture of Punk in the same gear that the masked man wore from the same event has surfaced.
Well then.
pic.twitter.com/16g6TzV4bU Sean Ross Sapp of Fightful.com (@SeanRossSapp) April 21, 2019 Furthermore, renowned indie wrester, Silas Young confirmed Punks appearance in a tweet.
Last night we held @MKE_Wrestling at the Knights of Columbus building in west allis the place was packed with 350 people.
This place has had 25+ years of wrestling and is the place a lot of guys started.
Guys like @ColtCabana as well as a Punk who showed up in a mask last night silas young (@lastrealmanROH) April 20, 2019 While its cool that Punk would make a comeback like this, fans would still love the 40-year-old to have one last run at the top.
AEW is much more likely if that was to happen, but there is every chance this was just a one-off, too.
The very first thing Crawford addressed in his post-fight press conference was the low blow that ended the fight - and he denied doing it To say the finish of the fight between Amir Khan and Terence Crawford was underwhelming would be the understatement of the year.
Khan retired from the fight after suffering a low blow from the WBO welterweight champion in the fifth round, citing pain in his stomach and seized legs as the reason he could not continue.
2 Terence Crawford scored an early knockdown In his post-fight interview, Crawford immediately stated: First of all, it wasnt a low blow.
Replays have suggested that is simply not true.
Crawford, now 35-0, was dominating the fight in all fairness and put Khan down with a brutal right hand in the first round.
One judge even had the American winning every round before the fight was stopped, but fans arent buying his story about the low blow.
Crawford denies the low blow.
Replays show that Crawford basically got a bat and smacked Amir right in the balls.
Anyone who has been even tapped in the balls can imagine how much that hurts #CrawfordKhan CR Boxing (@CRBoxing) April 21, 2019 Crawford denies that it was a low blow.
I recommend he look at the replay.
#CrawfordKhan Bloody Elbow (@BloodyElbow) April 21, 2019 Crawford: first of all, it wasnt a low blow.
Everyone with fully functional eyes: #CrawfordKhan pic.twitter.com/gOZRumKa4q Nick Wojton (@Nick_Wojton) April 21, 2019 All these keyboard warriors claiming Amir Khan just quit please take a low blow punch from Terence Crawford and try to continue, muppets Ieuan (@ieuandthomas) April 21, 2019 I think my favorite part of the whole fiasco is Crawford saying straight-faced and with complete conviction that it wasn't a low blow #CrawfordKhan Miles Hackett (@miles_hackett) April 21, 2019 2 Crawford clearly caught Khan low Those same fans pretty unanimously believe that Khan took the easy way out and thats a sentiment shared by perpetual rival Kell Brook.
The replays clearly show it was a low blow and it is likely Crawford would have been deducted a point had the fight continued.
As it turned out, Khan simply accelerated a result that seemed a foregone conclusion given the flow of the fight.
Brook claims Khan was 'getting beat in every department' and Khan will finally want to fight him after that defeat Boxing fans everywhere are bitterly disappointed with the bizarre conclusion to Terence Crawford Vs Amir Khan in New York.
WBO welterweight champion Crawford retained his title via TKO after Khans corner called the fight off following a low blow from the champion to the challenger.
2 Khan was in serious pain after the low blow Fans everywhere have speculated that Khan took the easy way out and quit since he was taking quite the beating from Crawford.
Its hard to accuse Khan of that given his previous.
The Bolton-born star went down fighting with everything he had in losses to Breidis Prescott and Dannuy Garcia in the past, even hopping around the ring against the latter.
One man that has had his say on the matter is eternal domestic rival Kell Brook.
2 Crawford couldnt believe it I thought he quit.
He had five minutes.
He just looked for a way out, he were getting beat in every department.
He will wanna fight me now, hes got nowhere to go, Brook told AB Boxing News.
Brook might be right with his final sentiment.
Itd hard to buy Khan in another top-level fight and many might argue that a bout between Brook and Khan doesnt hold the lustre it used to.
That would have sold out a stadium at one point.
Khan has said he will go away and spend time with his family before deciding his next move.
The fight came to an anticlimactic conclusion Amir Khan was beaten by Terence Crawford in bizarre circumstances on Saturday night in New York.
The challenger decided to stop the fight after being hit by a low blow in the sixth round, following on from a tough opening 15 minutes.
Despite being given time to recover from the shot below the belt, Khan opted to bring the contest to a premature end, meaning that the champion retained his world title.
3 Amir Khan was beaten in New York The fight began in dire circumstances for Khan as he was knocked down within the first round.
Crawford landed a big right hand at the end of a tentative opener and the Brit only just survived after making it back to his feet.
The challengers handspeed allowed him to have some success in the second, however the champion quickly switched stances from orthodox to southpaw in order to neutralise this.
3 Terence Crawford scored an early knockdown Terence Crawford was fully in control of the third, fourth and fifth rounds appearing to buzz Amir Khan on multiple occasions as he displayed the severe disparity in class between them for all to see Then, in the sixth, the fight reached its odd conclusion just as itd started to become a one-sided beatdown.
Crawford landed a shot which replays showed to be seriously low and left Khan reeling in pain.
The referee intervened and stated he would allow the Brit several minutes to recoup, but he consulted with his trainer Virgil Hunter in the corner and decided to end the contest.
3 Khan was in serious pain after the low blow Post-fight, Amir Khan explained: I wanna apologise to all the fans.
The fight was just getting interesting.
I was caught with a shot below the belt.
I could feel it in my stomach.
I feel I couldnt continue.
Im a warrior, Id never give up a fight like this, I was in pain.
Terence Crawfords version of events differed: First of all, it wasnt a low blow.
Virgil knew the fight was going in a bad direction.
I was rushing myself a little bit.
Where that Terence Crawford punch landed on Amir Khan #CrawfordKhan pic.twitter.com/T887iwL4sd Boxing on BT Sport (@BTSportBoxing) April 21, 2019 When asked who he wants next, the champion replied: Theres only one fight theyre talking about and thats Spence.
Whenever theyre ready, Im here.
Earlier in the night, 21-year-old American prospects Teofimo Lopez and Shakur Stevenson notched impressive wins as they continued their progression on the undercard.
Amir Khan having a hard time before the incident which saw the fight ended Fans who spent a lot of money to head to Madison Square Garden and watch Amir Khan take on Terence Crawford will have left disappointed.
Those who stayed up in the UK will feel the same way and judging by social media, many think Khan is to blame.
1 Khan and Crawford fought at MSG The 32-year-old retired during the fight because of a low blow from Crawford despite having up to five minutes to recover from the blow.
His trainer Virgil Hunter called a halt to the bout with Khan in great pain as the former two-time champion claimed his legs seized up and he had severe pain in his stomach.
Most fans will agree that Crawford was dominating the fight until that point.
Where that Terence Crawford punch landed on Amir Khan #CrawfordKhan pic.twitter.com/T887iwL4sd Boxing on BT Sport (@BTSportBoxing) April 21, 2019 After looking like Khan had perhaps even secured the first round, he was knocked down in the final minute with a hard overhand right following a lazy jab.
That had the Bolton-born fighter hanging on for dear life, but he appeared to regain his composure in the second.
Body shots from the three division champion started to tell, though.
Crawford switched stance and the next three rounds saw Khan forced to defend rather than dictate.
Khan was happy to fire off against the WBO welterweight champion, but fans are finding it hard to believe that Khan was that seriously hurt and some believe he quit.
Man, give me a damn break.
Im sorry, but that did not look like @amirkingkhan got hit in the privates.
And HE didnt quit, his trainer did.
This is some straight B.S.
Feel bad for @terencecrawford.
His time was WASTED.
Goodbye Khan.
What a damn shame!
Stephen A Smith (@stephenasmith) April 21, 2019 I like Khan, I've always defended him.But he looked for a way out.He knew he'd get stopped.
It's a TKO because Hunter asked if Khan wanted the fight to be stopped & Khan nodded.He quit in a PPV against arguably p4p number 1?
He's lost that fire in his belly.
Retire.
#CrawfordKhan Bet Boxing (@BetBoxing) April 21, 2019 Khan was losing, but he wasn't completely out with no chance at all..Bud was gonna win no doubt, but Khan used the low blow as an excuse to quit in my opinion.
#CrawfordKhan JHardy (@JHardyChiVegas) April 21, 2019 Amir Khan getting booed in the post fight interview in the ring.
I think he fans feel like he quit too easy#TWBW World Boxing Wall (@WorldBoxingWall) April 21, 2019 Khan quit.
He quit mentally and was looking for a way out.
Fortunately for him, the low blow was the perfect reason for him to check out #CrawfordKhan Hamza (@HamzaA305) April 21, 2019 The Kell Brook fight is still there for Khan if he wanted to get back in the ring again but the finish of this fight has an eerily similar feeling to the climax of James DeGales career and Khan may retire altogether.
In all fairness, Khan has never been known to quit in the past.
News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.
The undercard of Khan Vs Crawford featured an immensely talented 21-year-old super featherweight that had fans drooling on Twitter Amir Khan and Terence Crawford are main eventing Madison Square Garden, but Shakur Stevenson made plenty of noise on the undercard at Madison Square Garden.
The 21-year-old was a silver medallist at the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro and following his victory over Christopher Diaz on Saturday night he has moved to 11-0 in the professional ranks.
1 Shakur Stevenson with Diaz at the weigh-ins Fans were lavishing praise on the young New Yorker named after the late rapper Tupac Shakur for his exceptional performance at the mecca of boxing.
Diaz was no mug, either.
The former WBO super featherweight world title challenger couldnt win a round against the former Olympian en route to a unanimous decision loss and his one and only defeat prior to this defeat came in a world title fight.
Diaz, 24, tried to step on Stevensons leading foot to prevent the southpaw dictating the fight, but the young super featherweight was miles ahead of his foe.
4th or 5th time I've seen Stevenson now, and he looks better everytime #Boxing @BTSportBoxing definitely one to watch #KhanCrawford Mackem82 (@paulmack1982) April 21, 2019 MSG crowd booing Shakur Stevenson, who cruised in that final round to what will be a lopsided decision.
Stevenson outclassd Diaz but didn't seem interested in the knockout.
#CrawfordKhan Chris Mannix (@SIChrisMannix) April 21, 2019 Virtuoso performance from Shakur Stevenson.
Made a very good fighter look average.
Thought the odds were way too wide but Stevenson showed his class and why oddsmakers overpriced him confidently and correctly.
Jim Karas (@BoxingFreak247) April 21, 2019 This Shakur Stevenson looks class Kerrod (@AKerrod) April 21, 2019 @ShakurStevenson will wash any featherweight in the division Nothing Nice (@UursTrulyTheBoi) April 21, 2019 Stevenson picked his spots, read his opponents attacks and had explosive combinations that left fans in awe of his ability.
He stated in a pre-fight interview that he is very interested in fighting the likes of Lee Selby, Josh Warrington and Carl Frampton in the near future, but his manager and all-time great Andre Ward is hoping to take a measured approach.
Still, judging by this performance, Stevenson will be in the world title mix sooner rather than later.
In his post-fight interview, Stevenson even went as far to call himself the next Mayweather.
A comprehensive list of the biggest bouts slated for the next few months After a thrilling year for boxing, heres hoping 2019 proves equally as entertaining.
Here is the full list of major fights scheduled to take place this year April 20, MSG, New York, USA Bob Arums Top Rank BT Sport PPV // ESPN PPV Terence Crawford vs Amir Khan (WBO Welterweight Title) Teofimo Lopez vs Edis Tatli (Lightweight) Shakur Stevenson vs Christopher Diaz (Featherweight) Felix Verdejo vs Bryan Vasquez (Lightweight) April 26, The Forum, LA, USA Eddie Hearns Matchroom USA Sky Sports // DAZN Srisaket Sor Rungvisai vs Juan Francisco Estrada II (WBC Super-Flyweight Title) Daniel Roman vs TJ Doheny (WBA & IBF Super-Bantamweight Titles Jessie Vargas vs Humberto Soto (151lbs Catchweight) Scott Quigg vs Jayson Velez (Super-Featherweight) April 27, SSE Arena Wembley, London, UK Frank Warrens Queensberry BT Sport // ESPN+ Daniel Dubois vs Richard Lartey (Heavyweight) Lerrone Richards vs Tommy Langford (Commonwealth Super-Middleweight Title) Jack Catterall vs Opponent TBC (Super-Lightweight) Sunny Edwards vs Opponent TBC (Super-Flyweight) April 27, The Cosmopolitan, Las Vegas, USA Al Haymons PBC None Confirmed // Showtime Robert Easter Jr vs Rances Barthelemy (WBA Regular Lightweight Title) Viktor Postol vs Mohamed Mimoune (Super-Lightweight) Efe Ajagba vs Michael Wallisch (Heavyweight) April 27, Cajundome, Lafayette, Louisiana, USA World Boxing Super Series Semi-Final None Confirmed // DAZN Regis Prograis vs Kiryl Relikh (WBA Super-Lightweight Title) Nonito Donaire vs Zolani Tete (WBA & WBO Bantamweight Titles) 7 Terence Crawford vs Amir Khan will take place on April 20 May 4, T-Mobile Arena, Las Vegas, USA Oscar De La Hoyas Golden Boy Sky Sports // DAZN Canelo Alvarez vs Daniel Jacobs (WBA, WBC & IBF Middleweight Titles) David Lemieux vs John Ryder (WBA Interim Super-Middleweight Title) Jojo Diaz vs Opponent TBC (Super-Featherweight) Vergil Ortiz Jr vs Mauricio Herrera (Super-Lightweight) Salam Ali vs Anthony Young (Welterweight) May 4, Stockton Arena, California, USA Bob Arums Top Rank BoxNation // ESPN Artur Beterbiev vs Radivoje Kalajdzic (IBF Light-Heavyweight Title) Jerwin Ancajas vs Ryuichi Funai (IBF Super-Flyweight Title) May 10, Nottingham Arena, Nottingham, UK Eddie Hearns Matchroom Sky Sports // DAZN Leigh Wood vs Ryan Doyle (Commonwealth Featherweight Title) Jordan Gill vs Enrique Tinoco (Featherweight) May 11, EagleBank Arena, Fairfax, Virginia, USA Al Haymons PBC None Confirmed // FOX Jarrett Hurd vs Julian Williams (WBA & IBF Super-Welterweight Titles) May 11, Tucson Arena, Tucson, Arizona, USA Bob Arums Top Rank BoxNation // ESPN Miguel Berchelt vs Francisco Vargas II (WBC Super-Featherweight Title) Emanuel Navarrete vs Isaac Dogboe II (WBO Super-Bantamweight Title) May 17, Ulster Hall, Belfast, UK MTK Global iFL TV // ESPN+ Ryan Burnett vs Jelbirt Gomera (Super-Bantamweight) May 18, SSE Hydro Arena, Glasgow, UK World Boxing Super Series Semi-Final None Confirmed // DAZN Josh Taylor vs Ivan Baranchyk (IBF Super-Lightweight Title) Naoya Inoue vs Emmanuel Rodriguez (IBF Bantamweight Title) May 18, Lamex Stadium, Stevenage FC, UK Frank Warrens Queensberry BT Sport // ESPN+ Billy Joe Saunders vs Shefat Isufi (WBO Interim Super-Middleweight Title) May 18, Barclays Center, New York, USA Al Haymons PBC Sky Sports // Showtime Deontay Wilder vs Dominic Breazeale (WBC Heavyweight Title) Gary Russell Jr vs Kiko Martinez (WBC Featherweight Title) May 25, Victoria Warehouse, Manchester UK Mick Hennessys Hennessy Sports Channel 5 // None Confirmed Hughie Fury vs Opponent TBC (Heavyweight) May 25, MGM National Harbor, Oxon Hill, Maryland, USA Eddie Hearns Matchroom USA Sky Sports // DAZN Oleksandr Usyk vs Carlos Takam (Heavyweight) Michael Hunter vs Opponent TBC (Heavyweight) Filip Hrgovic vs Greg Corbin (Heavyweight) 7 Canelo Alvarezs next outing will be on May 4 June 1, Madison Square Garden, New York, USA Eddie Hearns Matchroom Sky Sports PPV // DAZN Anthony Joshua vs Opponent TBC (WBA, IBF & WBO Heavyweight Titles) Katie Taylor vs Delfine Persoon (WBA, WBC, IBF & WBO Lightweight Titles) June 8, Madison Square Garden, New York, USA Gennady Golovkins GGG Promotions None Confirmed // DAZN Gennady Golovkin vs Steve Rolls (164lbs Catchweight) June 15, FD Arena, Leeds, UK Frank Warrens Queensberry BT Sport // ESPN+ Josh Warrington vs Kid Galahad (IBF Featherweight Title) June 15, MGM Grand, Las Vegas, USA Bob Arums Top Rank BT Sport // ESPN+ Tyson Fury vs Tom Schwarz (Heavyweight) June 15, Riga Arena, Riga, Latvia World Boxing Super Series Semi-Final None Confirmed // DAZN Mairis Briedis vs Krzysztof Glowacki (WBO Interim Cruiserweight Title) Yunier Dorticos vs Andrew Tabiti (Cruiserweight) June 19, Osaka Prefectural Gym, Osaka Japan None Confirmed // None Confirmed Kazuto Ioka vs Aston Palicte (WBO Super-Flyweight Title) 7 Anthony Joshua will be back on June 1 July 20, O2 Arena, London, UK Eddie Hearns Matchroom Sky Sports PPV // None Confirmed Dillian Whyte vs Oscar Rivas (Heavyweight) 7 Dillian Whyte beat Lucas Browne, Joseph Parker and Dereck Chisora in 2018 Results January 13, Microsoft Theater, LA, USA Al Haymons PBC Caleb Plant UD Jose Uzcategui (IBF Super-Middleweight Title) Guillermo Rigondeaux KO1 Giovanni Delgado (Super-Bantamweight) January 18, Turning Stone, New York, USA Bob Arums Top Rank Oscar Rivas TKO12 Bryant Jennings (Heavyweight) January 18, MSG Theater, New York, USA Eddie Hearns Matchroom USA Demetrius Andrade TKO12 Artur Akavov (WBO Super-Middleweight Title) TJ Doheny TKO11 Ryohei Takahashi (IBF Super-Bantamweight Title) Pablo Cesar Cano TKO1 Jorge Linares (Super-Lightweight) January 19, MGM Grand, Las Vegas, USA Al Haymons PBC Manny Pacquiao UD Adrien Broner (WBA Regular Welterweight Title) Marcus Browne UD Badou Jack (WBA Interim Light-Heavyweight Title) Nordine Oubaali UD Raushee Warren (WBC Bantamweight Title) January 26, Toyota Center, Houston, USA Oscar De La Hoyas Golden Boy Jamie Munguia UD Takeshi Inoue (WBO Super-Welterweight Title) Can Xu UD Jesus Rojas (WBA Regular Featherweight Title) January 26, Barclays Center, New York, USA Al Haymons PBC Keith Thurman MD Josesito Lopez (WBA Welterweight Title) Adam Kownacki TKO2 Gerald Washington (Heavyweight) 7 Manny Pacquiao beat Adrien Broner on January 19 in Las Vegas February 2, O2 Arena, London, UK Eddie Hearns Matchroom Sergio Garcia UD Ted Cheeseman (European Super-Welterweight Title) Craig Richards TKO3 Jake Ball (Light-Heavyweight) Lawrence Okolie TKO3 Tamas Lodi (Cruiserweight) February 2, Ford Center, Texas, USA Bob Arums Top Rank/Kathy Duvas Main Events Sergey Kovalev UD Eleider Alvarez II (WBO Light-Heavyweight Title) Oscar Valdez TKO7 Carmine Tommasone (WBO Featherweight Title) Richard Commey TKO2 Isa Chaniev (IBF Lightweight Title) Teofimo Lopez KO7 Diego Magdaleno (Lightweight) February 9, Vitality Health Center, LA, USA Al Haymons PBC Gervonta Davis KO1 Hugo Ruiz (WBA Super-Featherweight Title) February 9, Fantasy Springs Casino, California, USA, Oscar De La Hoyas Golden Boy Rey Vargas UD Franklin Manzanilla (WBC Super-Bantamweight Title) Andrew Cancio KO4 Alberto Machado (WBA Regular Super-Featherweight Title) February 10, Save Mart Arena, Fresno, USA Bob Arums Top Rank Jose Ramirez UD Jose Zepeda (WBC Super-Lightweight Title) Ray Beltran KO9 Hiroki Okada (Lightweight) February 15, Grand Casino, Minnesota, USA Bob Arums Top Rank Rob Brant TKO11 Khasan Baysangurov (WBA Regular Middleweight Title) February 16, Microsoft Theater, LA, USA Al Haymons PBC Leo Santa Cruz UD Rafael Rivera (WBA Featherweight Title) Omar Figueroa Jr UD John Molina Jr (Welterweight) February 23, O2 Arena, London, UK Al Haymons PBC Chris Eubank Jr UD James DeGale (Super-Middleweight) Joe Joyce TKO6 Bermane Stiverne (Heavyweight) Lee Selby UD Omar Douglas (Lightweight) February 23, Minneapolis Armory, Minneapolis, USA Al Haymons PBC Anthony Dirrell TD Avni Yildirim (WBC Super-Middleweight Title) February 23, Auditorio Municipal, Tijuana, Mexico Eddie Hearns Matchroom USA/Zanfer Humberto Soto UD Brandon Rios (Welterweight) 7 Chris Eubank Jr retired James DeGale on February 23 March 2, East of England Arena, Peterborough, UK Eddie Hearns Matchroom Jordan Gill TKO3 Emmanuel Dominguez (Featherweight) March 2, Barclays Center, New York, USA Al Haymons PBC Brian Castano SD (Draw) Erislandy Lara (WBA Regular Super-Welterweight Title) Luis Ortiz UD Christian Hammer (Heavyweight) March 8, Royal Albert Hall, London, UK Frank Warrens Queensberry Daniel Dubois KO2 Razvan Cojanu (Heavyweight) Anthony Yarde TKO5 Travis Reeves (Light-Heavyweight) Liam Williams KO2 Joe Mullender (British Middleweight Title) Chris Jenkins UD Johnny Garton (British Welterweight Title) March 9, Turning Stone, New York, USA Eddie Hearns Matchroom USA Dmitry Bivol UD Joe Smith Jr (WBA Light-Heavyweight Title) Maurice Hooker UD Mikkel LesPierre (WBO Super-Lightweight Title) Callum Johnson TKO3 Sean Monaghan (Light-Heavyweight) March 9, Dignity Health Sports Park, California, USA Al Haymons PBC Shawn Porter SD Yordenis Ugas (WBC Welterweight Title) March 15, Liacouras Center, Philadelphia, USA Eddie Hearns Matchroom USA Tevin Farmer UD Jono Carroll (IBF Super-Featherweight Title) Katie Taylor TKO9 Rose Volante (WBA, IBF & WBO Lightweight Titles) Maciej Sulecki UD Gabriel Rosado (Middleweight) Luke Campbell TKO5 Adrian Young (Lightweight) March 16, Gifu Memorial Center, Gifu, Japan Kiyoshi Hatanakas Promotions Kosei Tanaka UD Ryoichi Taguchi (WBO Flyweight Title) March 16, AT&T Stadium, Texas, USA Al Haymons PBC Errol Spence UD Mikey Garcia (IBF Welterweight Title) David Benavidez TKO2 JLeon Love (Super-Middleweight) Luis Nery RTD4 McJoe Arroyo (Bantamweight) March 17, MSG Theater, New York, USA Bob Arums Top Rank Michael Conlan UD Ruben Garcia Hernandez (Featherweight) Luis Collazo SD Samuel Vargas (Welterweight) Oscar Mojica SD Paddy Barnes (Bantamweight) March 23, Copper Box Arena, London, UK Eddie Hearns Matchroom Charlie Edwards UD Angel Moreno (WBC Flyweight Title) Joshua Buatsi TKO3 Liam Conroy (British Light-Heavyweight Title) Lawrence Okolie TKO4 Wadi Camacho (British & Commonwealth Cruiserweight Titles) Lewis Ritson UD German Argentino Benitez (Super-Lightweight) March 23, Leicester Arena, Leicester, UK Frank Warrens Queensberry Sam Bowen TKO Jordan McCorry (British Super-Featherweight Title) Nathan Gorman UD Kevin Johnson (Heavyweight) March 23, Palenque, Metepec, Mexico Osvaldo Chavezs Clase Y Talento Boxeo Julio Cesar Martinez KO5 Andrew Selby (Flyweight) March 23, The Hangar, Costa Mesa, California, USA Bob Arums Top Rank Kubrat Pulev KO7 Bogdan Dinu (Heavyweight) Jessie Magdaleno UD Rico Ramos (Featherweight) March 24, MGM National Harbor, Maryland, USA Al Haymons PBC Sergey Lipinets TKO10 Lamont Peterson (Welterweight) March 30, M&S Bank Arena, Liverpool, UK Eddie Hearns Matchroom Liam Smith TKO5 Sam Eggington (Super-Welterweight) Scott Fitzgerald SD Anthony Fowler (Super-Welterweight) David Price DQ Kash Ali (Heavyweight) Robbie Davies Jr UD Joe Hughes (British & European Super-Lightweight Titles) March 30, Bilbao Arena, Bilbao, Spain MGZ Promotions David Avanesyan TKO9 Kerman Lejarraga (European Welterweight Title) March 30, 2300 Arena, Philadelphia, USA Bob Arums Top Rank Oleksandr Gvozdyk TKO5 Doudou Ngumbu (WBC Light-Heavyweight Title) Ray Robinson MD (Draw) Egidijus Kavaliauskas (Welterweight) March 30, Fantasy Springs, California, USA Oscar De La Hoyas Golden Boy Ryan Garcia RTD2 Jose Lopez (Lightweight) Angel Acosta KO8 Ganigan Lopez (WBO Light-Flyweight Title) 7 Errol Spence dominated Mikey Garcia April 6, Spodek, Katowice, Poland MB Promotions Martin Bakole TKO8 Mariusz Wach (Heavyweight) April 12, Staples Center, LA, USA Bob Arums Top Rank Vasyl Lomachenko KO4 Anthony Crolla (WBA & WBO Lightweight Titles) Gilberto Ramirez RTD4 Tommy Karpency (Light-Heavyweight) April 13, Minneapolis Armory, Minneapolis, USA Al Haymons PBC Caleb Truax ND Peter Quillin (Super-Middleweight) Sergiy Derevyanchenko UD Jack Culcay (Middleweight) April 13, Arena Monterrey, Monterrey, Mexico Oscar De La Hoyas Golden Boy Jaime Munguia MD Dennis Hogan (WBO Super-Welterweight Title) April 13, Boardwalk Hall, Atlantic City, New Jersey, USA Dmitry Salita Claressa Shields UD Christina Hammer (WBA, WBC, IBF & WBO Middleweight Titles) April 20, O2 Arena, London, UK Eddie Hearns Matchroom Dave Allen KO3 Lucas Browne (Heavyweight) Dereck Chisora UD Senad Gashi (Heavyweight) Joe Cordina TKO6 Andy Townend (British Lightweight Title) Josh Kelly UD Przemyslaw Runowski (Welterweight) Conor Benn PTS Josef Zahradnik (Welterweight) April 20, Dignity Health Sports Park, California, USA Al Haymons PBC
Khan takes on WBO champ Crawford in New York this weekend Amir Khan returns to the ring this weekend to face off against WBO welterweight king Terrence Crawford at Madison Square Garden.
Khan has ignored a long-awaited British showdown with Kell Brook to take a shot at one of boxings modern greats and leave New York with the world title belt.
3 Amir Khan and Terence Crawford go head-to-head this weekend Unbeaten three-weight world champion Crawford is one of the best in the business right now and Khan faces one of the toughest tests of his career.
It could be a classic and heres everything you need to know about the fight in the Big Apple.
LATEST BOXING NEWS you Khan't go on Glenn McCrory: Amir Khan should fight Kell Brook or retire from boxing IN DENIAL 'Amir Khan did quit and should retire before he gets seriously hurt' Now or never Amir Khan vs Kell Brook: Barry Hearn says they need to fight this year TEMPTED?
Andre Ward refuses to rule out comeback and admits he misses boxing 'a lot' DISPUTE 'You didn't quit?'
- Terence Crawford argues with Amir Khan at press conference REACTION Khan reveals he suffered elbow injury before Crawford loss; vows not to retire It wasn't me Fans blast Crawford for denying low blow to Khan that replays clearly prove Low Blow, Kell Kell Brook claims Khan quit Vs Crawford because he 'looked for a way out' BELOW THE BELT Crawford vs Khan result: Brit loses by bizarre, controversial stoppage EXCUSE?
Crawford vs Khan: Fans slate Brit for using low blow to 'quit' FIGHT NIGHT Crawford vs Khan live result: Khan loses amid bizarre low blow finish 'I'm the new Mayweather' Khan Vs Crawford: fans rave about Shakur Stevenson undercard win Amir Khan vs Terence Crawford: When is it?
This huge world title scrap will be held on Saturday, April 20 at the iconic Madison Square Garden in New York.
It will be Khans third appearance in the famous city having beaten Paul Malignaggi in 2010 and Chris Algieri in 2015.
Khans last fight was his unanimous decision win over Colombias Samuel Vargas at the Birmingham Arena in September last year.
Amir Khan vs Terence Crawford: What time will it start?
As the fight is in the USA, English fans can expect the main event of the evening to get going around 4am UK time.
It will depend on how the undercard plays out.
3 Amir Khan will be in action in New York this weekend Amir Khan vs Terence Crawford: Who is fighting on the undercard?
A full schedule for the evening is yet to be announced but the following bouts have been confirmed.
Teofimo Lopez vs Edis Tatli (lightweight) Felix Verdejo vs Bryan Vasquez (lightweight) Shakur Stevenson vs Christopher Diaz (featherweight) 3 Amir Khan will face Terence Crawford in New York Amir Khan vs Terence Crawford: Tale of the tape Khan Crawford Nationality: British American Age: 32 31 Height: 5ft 8.5 5ft 8 Reach: 71in 74in Record: 33-4-0 34-0-0 KOs: 20 25 Rounds: 222 189 Stance: Orthodox Orthodox Nickname: King Khan Bud
King Khan take on Bud in New York this weekend Amir Khan and Terrence Crawford face off at Madison Square Garden this weekend.
The unbeaten three-weight world champion Crawford will put his WBO welterweight title on the line when he welcomes Khan to New York.
2 Amir Khan takes on Terence Crawford this weekend Khan, who beat Samuel Vargas in Birmingham in September, faces won of the toughest tests of his career but could return to England with a world strap.
Crawford, who is at 34-0, has his eye on an all-American unification bout against IBF champion Errol Spence Jr if he comes through this bout.
LATEST BOXING NEWS you Khan't go on Glenn McCrory: Amir Khan should fight Kell Brook or retire from boxing IN DENIAL 'Amir Khan did quit and should retire before he gets seriously hurt' Now or never Amir Khan vs Kell Brook: Barry Hearn says they need to fight this year TEMPTED?
Andre Ward refuses to rule out comeback and admits he misses boxing 'a lot' DISPUTE 'You didn't quit?'
- Terence Crawford argues with Amir Khan at press conference REACTION Khan reveals he suffered elbow injury before Crawford loss; vows not to retire It wasn't me Fans blast Crawford for denying low blow to Khan that replays clearly prove Low Blow, Kell Kell Brook claims Khan quit Vs Crawford because he 'looked for a way out' BELOW THE BELT Crawford vs Khan result: Brit loses by bizarre, controversial stoppage EXCUSE?
Crawford vs Khan: Fans slate Brit for using low blow to 'quit' FIGHT NIGHT Crawford vs Khan live result: Khan loses amid bizarre low blow finish 'I'm the new Mayweather' Khan Vs Crawford: fans rave about Shakur Stevenson undercard win Amir Khan vs Terence Crawford: When is it and where?
The huge world title showdown will be held on Saturday, April 20 with the main event expected to get underway at 4am UK time.
It will be held at the iconic Madison Square Garden in New York City.
Amir Khan vs Terence Crawford: TV channel and live stream details You can watch all the action unfold from over the pond on BT Sport Box Office.
This will be a pay-per-view event and will cost 19.95.
Head over to BT Sports event page to purchase.
You can buy the fight for BT TV, Sky TV, Virgin Media or online and through BT Sports App from that page.
You can stream it on your Mac, PC, tablet or mobile by downloading the BT Sport Box Office app and logging in with the details submitted on the official website.
And if youve got a Chromecast or Airplay setup in your front room, the app will allow you to cast the fight onto your big screen.
2 Amir Khan will face Terence Crawford in New York Amir Khan vs Terence Crawford: Tale of the tape Khan Crawford Nationality: British American Age: 32 31 Height: 5ft 8.5 5ft 8 Reach: 71in 74in Record: 33-4-0 34-0-0 KOs: 20 25 Rounds: 222 189 Stance: Orthodox Orthodox Nickname: King Khan Bud
These two put on one of the greatest domestic bouts in recent memory and tonight, they were alongside each other for punditry at the O2 Arena Is there a more regaled story than Carl Froch talking about knocking George Groves out in front of 80,000 people at Wembley?
No?
Well, try the alternate version George Groves spun doing punditry at the O2 Arena tonight.
1 Carl Froch infamously flattened George Groves in 2014 to end their bitter rivalry Fans were treated to a labouring Dereck Chisora win before Dave Allen finished Lucas Browne with a savage body blow in the main event in London.
However, doing punditry duties, Groves delivered an alternate version of the events at Wembley and, as a matter of face, he retired Froch!
Did I ever tell you about the time I retired Carl Froch in front of 80,000 people?
I let him throw a peach of a right hand.
After that it was all downhill from there for him and he said, Im gonna have to pack it in.'
George Groves, while stood next to Carl Froch on Sky: "Did I ever tell you about the time I retired Carl Froch in front of 80,000 people?
I let him throw a peach of a right hand.
After that it was all downhill from there for him and he said, 'I'm gonna have to pack it in.'"
pic.twitter.com/8LrnvkSlJf Michael Benson (@MichaelBensonn) April 20, 2019 Fantastic stuff.
Froch is often maligned for his takes on boxers he has either faced or could have, but not only was he a good dance partner for Groves in the ring, but he proved to be a great foil behind a microphone, too.
Furthermore, Froch had to stop himself saying Allen knocked out Groves instead of Browne, too!
Froch is the gift that keeps on giving, but Groves earned his money tonight, too.
talkSPORT have teamed up with Barclays to give away a pair of tickets to Burnley v Man City at Turf Moor on Sunday 28th April at 2.05pm.
Barclays are celebrating their Game Changing moments of the Premier League and rewarding fans with the chance to win tickets to Premier League matches every week!
Please note that by entering this competition your information will be used in accordance with Wireless Privacy Policy, and your data will be used to contact you in case you are selected as the winner.
To enter simply answer the question below: BARCLAYS (THE PROMOTION) ONLINE RULES: By entering the Promotion, you agree to be bound by these terms and conditions (these Terms and Conditions).
Phoning, texting or emailing to enter the Promotion or completing and submitting an entry form will be deemed acceptance of these Terms and Conditions.
Promotional materials relating to the Promotion, including all information on how to enter the Promotion published by the Promoter (including on social media if applicable) or on the Promoters websites, also apply to the Promotion.
In the event of any conflict between any terms referred to in such promotional materials and these Terms and Conditions, these Terms and Conditions take precedence.
Participation in the Promotion Residents of the United Kingdom aged 18 or over only, except employees and agents of the Promoter or Wireless Group Limited and anyone otherwise connected with the operation or fulfilment of the Promotion (including third party sponsors or promotional partners) and their respective associated, affiliated or subsidiary companies, and the immediate families and household members of all such employees and agents.
The Promotion starts at 00:01 am (UK time) on Sunday 5 August 2018 and closes at 13:00 pm (UK time) on Tuesday 7 May 2019 (the Promotion Period).
Any entries received outside of the Promotion Period will be void.
There will be 39 prize draws (individually each a Prize Draw) in total during the Promotional Period.
This Prize Draw will start at 12:00 (UK time) on a Sunday and close at 13:00 (UK time) on a Tuesday.
To enter a Prize Draw you must complete and submit the entry form available at http://www.talksport.com/win or by Phoning, texting or emailing .
Only one entry per person is permitted.
You can enter each Prize Draw but you can only win once across the Promotion.
If you win more than one Prize Draw you win the Prize from the first Prize Draw you entered.
Entries received which are not submitted via the official entry method will not be accepted.
Use of script, macro or any automated system to enter the Promotion is prohibited and entries made (or which appear to have been made) using any such system may be treated as void.
Any illegible, incomplete or fraudulent entries will be rejected.
Participants should be aware that they may be subject to data charges depending on their own individual arrangements for internet access if they enter the Promotion online or by phone, text or email.
Winners and Prizes Each Prize Draw winner will win a pair of Premier League tickets (the Prize.
There will be one winner per Prize Draw.
Each Prize Draw winner will be selected at random from all valid entries received for each week during the Promotion Period (excluding previously selected winner(s)), winners will be selected at 10:00 on the Friday following the opening Wednesday of each prize draw.
There will be one winner per week and up to 39 different winners for the Promotion.
Each week will run from Sunday to Tuesday during the Promotion Period.
10.
The prize is a pair of general admission ticket for various Premier League matches at various venues across the season (these will be specified on individual competition pages for each prize draw).
Winner and guest are responsible for travel to and from match at their own expense.
Promoter reserves the right to substitute tickets for a different match and date without notice if ticket(s) to the advertised match become unavailable for any reason and/or at its sole discretion.
Winner and/or his or her guest must not be excluded or banned from travelling to or from or attending any matches by any relevant official authority anywhere or under suspicion or investigation of the same.
If the winner and/or guest is banned or under suspicion the Promoter reserves right to re-select another winner without notice.
This Promotion is in no way sponsored, endorsed or administered by or associated with any athletes, the teams and/or The Premier League.
11.
Prizes are as stated and are non-exchangeable and non-transferable.
There is no cash or other alternative to the prize in whole or in part.
12.
The winner is responsible for paying all associated costs that are not specifically stated in any Promotional materials or these Terms and Conditions, including (where applicable) transport, accommodation, meal costs, spending money, insurance and all other incidentals.
Winners are also personally responsible for any personal or incidental expenses and any VAT, national and/or local tax liabilities incurred in claiming or using the prize.
By participating in the Promotion, participants agree that the prize is awarded on an as is basis, and that neither the Promoter nor any of its subsidiary or affiliated companies, make any representations or warranties of any nature with respect to the prize.
In the event that, for reasons beyond the Promoters reasonable control the Promoter is unable to award the prize as described in these Terms and Conditions, the Promoter reserves the right to award a prize of a similar nature and an equivalent value, or at its sole discretion, the cash value of the prize.
The Promoter also reserves the right to award a prize of a similar nature and an equivalent value, or at its sole discretion, the cash value of the prize if in its reasonable discretion it is appropriate to do so.
Winner Announcement and claiming of prize Winners will be notified by phone or using the other contact details provided to the Promoter within 1 day after the end of the relevant Prize Draw.
All reasonable endeavours will be made to contact the winner during the specified time.
If a winner cannot be contacted or is not available, the Promoter reserves the right to re-draw another winner from the valid/correct entries that were received during the relevant Prize Draw.
Winners may be required to submit valid identification before receiving their prize.
Callers are not necessarily entitled to participate in on-air Promotions and will not necessarily appear on-air in the order in which they are called.
The Promoter shall not be liable to reimburse callers for telephone charges when either on hold or on air.
When the situation arises, only the person who is selected to come to air (if applicable) is eligible to win if they give the correct answer.
Winners will be required to confirm acceptance of the applicable prize within 1 days of having been notified.
If the winner has not claimed their prize by the date specified or the winner refuses or is unable to provide an eligible postal address for receipt of their prize, the Promoter reserves the right to award the prize to another participant.
The Prize will be delivered within a reasonable time in advance of the match event.
For a list of winners (name and general location) please send a stamped self-addressed envelope by no later than 28 days after the end of the Promotion Period to the Promoter at: Promotions Department, Wireless Group Limited, City Quays 2, 2 Clarendon Road, Belfast, United Kingdom, BT1 3YD stating that you would like the winner details for the Barclays Promotion.
Data Protection and Publicity The Promoter will collect and process participants personal information and it will be shared with the Promoters agents, affiliates and, if applicable, any third party prize provider (including those outside the European Economic Area).
Information provided by participants will only be used for the purpose of conducting this Promotion (including for prizes to be delivered) and other purposes as may be specified at the time of entry or on promotional materials.
Personal information will be used in accordance with the applicable privacy policy in place from time to time (see http://www.newsprivacy.co.uk/single/).
Participants names and general locations will be published or made publicly available if they are a winner of the Promotion in accordance with the regulatory requirements.
In such circumstances we may also make free use of this information and participants photographs for publicity purposes both during this and future promotions by the Promoter or any of its associated or subsidiary companies.
General 21.
The Promoters decision is final and binding on the participants.
No correspondence will be entered into.
22.
If participants do not provide any of the mandatory information requested when participating in the Promotion, their entry will be void.
23.
The Promoter reserves the right to require the participants to prove that they are eligible.
If a winner is found to be ineligible, the Promoter reserves the right to award their prize to another participant and to require the return of any prize already awarded.
It was a fantastic left hook from the fan favourite Dave Allen achieved a career best win by knocking out Lucas Browne in three rounds on Saturday night at the O2 Arena.
The popular heavyweight endured a tough opening six minutes before planting home a peach of a left hook to the former WBA regular champions liver, leaving him crumbled on the canvas.
4 Dave Allen won by third-round KO The first round was a positive session from both men.
Browne appeared to have the more success, finding a consistent home for his jab, which surprised some observers.
In his last fight, the Australian struggled to beat tough journeyman Kamil Sokolowski and many thought he was finished.
4 Lucas Browne started the fight well However, by the second he looked well in control, landing multiple uppercuts on a nervous Allen.
As the third round began, the White Rhino kicked into life and smashed home a violent uppercut of his own, appearing to break Big Daddys nose.
Dave Allen then slipped a return shot and found an exceptional left hook, drilling it into his opponents body.
There was no getting up for Lucas Browne, meaning that an ecstatic Allen could celebrate wildly with Darren Barker, Eddie Hearn and the rest of his team.
4 Darren Barker celebrated with Dave Allen after the win In his post fight interview, the Doncaster man explained: Main eventing is one thing, but I needed to win, I had to win.
Ive won now, Ive beaten a former heavyweight champion at the O2, I want more now.
Hes not what he was obviously, but its a very good win.
The left hook to the body was beautiful.
I was fit, I could do 12 rounds.
4 Anthony Joshua was planning to make his US debut against Jarrell Miller on June 1 in New York Hes a very good boxer, its underrated his boxing skill, but I knew hed slow down.
If I can get you to my pace, Ill beat you.
Im unbeatable at a snails pace.
LATEST BOXING NEWS you Khan't go on Glenn McCrory: Amir Khan should fight Kell Brook or retire from boxing IN DENIAL 'Amir Khan did quit and should retire before he gets seriously hurt' Now or never Amir Khan vs Kell Brook: Barry Hearn says they need to fight this year TEMPTED?
Andre Ward refuses to rule out comeback and admits he misses boxing 'a lot' DISPUTE 'You didn't quit?'
- Terence Crawford argues with Amir Khan at press conference REACTION Khan reveals he suffered elbow injury before Crawford loss; vows not to retire It wasn't me Fans blast Crawford for denying low blow to Khan that replays clearly prove Low Blow, Kell Kell Brook claims Khan quit Vs Crawford because he 'looked for a way out' BELOW THE BELT Crawford vs Khan result: Brit loses by bizarre, controversial stoppage EXCUSE?
Crawford vs Khan: Fans slate Brit for using low blow to 'quit' FIGHT NIGHT Crawford vs Khan live result: Khan loses amid bizarre low blow finish 'I'm the new Mayweather' Khan Vs Crawford: fans rave about Shakur Stevenson undercard win When asked who he wants next, Allen joked: Being realistic, Id like Anthony Joshua on June 1.
He then replied: David Price, Dereck Chisora, anyone at all.
On the undercard, Dereck Chisora beat Senad Gashi on points in a lacklustre affair.
There was also wins earlier in the night for Joe Cordina, Josh Kelly and Conor Benn.
News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.
The 'Body Snatcher' faces another top contender as he waits for an elusive world title opportunity Dillian Whyte will fight Oscar Rivas when he returns on July 20 at the O2 Arena in London.
The Brixton man was last seen knocking out Dereck Chisora in their December rematch and was hoping to challenge Anthony Joshua for his world heavyweight titles in April.
2 Dillian Whyte beat Lucas Browne, Joseph Parker and Dereck Chisora in 2018 However, terms could not be agreed for the bout and AJ instead opted to travel to New York for a now cancelled defence against Jarrell Miller.
As a result, Whyte had to look elsewhere and has found a worthy opponent in Rivas who will likely make for an intriguing contest.
The Colombian established himself on the world stage with a dramatic final-round KO of Bryant Jennings in January and was subsequently linked with Tyson Fury.
2 Oscar Rivas is 26-0 (18 KOs) Fury is instead facing Tom Schwarz, leaving Oscar Rivas free to travel to London and fight Dillian Whyte in the summer.
The show will be broadcast on Sky Sports Box Office pay-per-view with promoter Eddie Hearn targeting Joseph Parker vs Dereck Chisora and Denis Lebedev vs Lawrence Okolie for the undercard.
LATEST BOXING NEWS you Khan't go on Glenn McCrory: Amir Khan should fight Kell Brook or retire from boxing IN DENIAL 'Amir Khan did quit and should retire before he gets seriously hurt' Now or never Amir Khan vs Kell Brook: Barry Hearn says they need to fight this year TEMPTED?
Andre Ward refuses to rule out comeback and admits he misses boxing 'a lot' DISPUTE 'You didn't quit?'
- Terence Crawford argues with Amir Khan at press conference REACTION Khan reveals he suffered elbow injury before Crawford loss; vows not to retire It wasn't me Fans blast Crawford for denying low blow to Khan that replays clearly prove Low Blow, Kell Kell Brook claims Khan quit Vs Crawford because he 'looked for a way out' BELOW THE BELT Crawford vs Khan result: Brit loses by bizarre, controversial stoppage EXCUSE?
Crawford vs Khan: Fans slate Brit for using low blow to 'quit' FIGHT NIGHT Crawford vs Khan live result: Khan loses amid bizarre low blow finish 'I'm the new Mayweather' Khan Vs Crawford: fans rave about Shakur Stevenson undercard win I am very happy to be fighting again at the O2 in July, said Whyte.
Oscar Rivas is undefeated and ranked in the top ten across the board of all the governing bodies.
He has been one of the most avoided heavyweight fighters in the last few years.
His KO victory over Bryant Jennings sent shockwaves through the division.
I am over the moon that he has accepted the fight.
He has a great amateur and professional record, including a win over Kubrat Pulev.
I am more than happy to carry on fighting top ten fighters like Rivas until I get my well-earned shot at Deontay Wilder or Anthony Joshua.
Newcastle boss Rafael Benitez has revealed contract talks with the club have not advanced and urged the Magpies hierarchy to act quickly regarding what they plan to do in the transfer market.
Benitez, who has been in charge since the back end of the 2015/16 season, is out of contract this summer.
3 Benitez has put Newcastle on the verge of Premier League safety He is adored by the Toon Army after getting the club back into the Premier League in the 2016/17 campaign and following their win over Southampton at St James Park, Newcastle went ten points clear of the relegation zone.
It means the club are all but safe and can start planning for life in the top flight next season and Newcastle fans will hope that owner Mike Ashley will spend money in the summer window.
And speaking to talkSPORTs Laura Woods and Stuart Pearce after the game, Benitez said Newcastle were now at a crossroads and had to decide if they wanted to go to the next level or continue to be a team that struggles to stay in the division.
Benitez said: You can see the potential every single weekend.
3 Newcastle fans were very frustrated by Mike Ashleys lack of spending last summer The city is behind the team, the stadium is full of fans every weekend and now we have to decide if we want to compete between 7th and 10th or between 15th and 17th.
At the moment the wage bill is really really important, not just the transfer fees.
If you want to attract good players with good quality you have to pay them good salaries because the other teams are doing that.
The teams between 7th and 10th are spending 100million and they are spending money on players on 100,000 a week so we have to decide if we want to compete with them or not.
Im not asking for anything.
I want some balance between the money you can spend and pay in relation to the teams that compete.
LATEST PREMIER LEAGUE NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend red rival Watch Salah's frustrated reaction when Milner takes penalty off Liverpool star STONEWALL Mo Salah didnt dive and deserved penalty against Cardiff, says Danny Murphy VINNIE'S VERDICT Man United have got Alan Brazil syndrome they dont turn up REVEALED Premier League table: How the top-flight could change in midweek We have the likes of [Martin] Dubravka and [Salomon] Rondon who give everything and they give the young players the time to get better and better.
Me, as a manager, Im not asking for more I just want us to be sure that we clarify.
Its not what we say, its what we do.
On whether talks for a new contract have advanced, Benitez said: No and I dont want to take advantage of anything.
At this stage of the season you have to make decisions.
Although Newcastle still have three games left this season, the manager called for the club to begin the recruitment process for new signings now.
3 Benitez is adored by the Toon Army He added: If you want to sign players then you have to do it now.
You cannot keep talking and talking because you cannot pay more money than some of the other teams so you have to go early and you have to find the right one and you have to do it NOW.
Listen to the full Rafael Benitez interview with Laura Woods and Stuart Pearce above!
A hat-trick from Ayoze Perez all but secured Newcastles Premier League status for next season as they survived a second-half fightback from Southmapton to win 3-1 at St James Park.
The striker netted a quickfire first-half brace minutes after Saints James Ward-Prowse escaped a sending off for a cynical challenge on Miguel Almiron.
4 Perez was the star of the show However, Southampton boss Ralph Hasenhuttl made a double change at the break and one of the newcomers, Mario Lemina, pulled one back before Perez settled it four minutes from time with his 11th goal of the season.
Rafael Benitezs men, who have won six of their last seven home games in the league to go 10 points clear of Cardiff, were decidedly ordinary for much of the second half, but ultimately emerged with a huge victory as the bulk of the crowd at St James Park pleaded with the manager to sign a new contract.
In a hectic opening to the game, it took a fine block by Matt Ritchie to deny Ward-Prowse after Nathan Redmond had picked him out with a 22nd-minute pull-back.
But last man Ward-Prowse was fortunate to stay on the pitch seconds later when he blocked Almiron on halfway as he attempted to race clear with support.
Referee Anthony Taylor produced only a yellow card to the fury of Benitez and his players.
4 Ward-Prowse was yellow carded for this foul on Almiron The Magpies anger was soothed within four minutes when Perez received the ball inside the box and patiently awaited his moment before dispatching his shot past the helpless Angus Gunn.
Perez had to wait just four minutes to double his tally when Salomon Rondons selfless run down the left gave him the opportunity to cross to the far post, where the Spaniard arrived on cue to beat the keeper from close range.
4 Perez scored his first two inside five first-half minutes Almiron, still awaiting his first goal for the Magpies, scuffed a shot 41st-minute straight at Gunn after Rondon had forced Maya Yoshida into an error, although Paul Dummett had to make a telling intervention on the stroke of half-time to repel Josh Sims goal-bound effort.
Hasenhuttl made his move at half-time when he sent on Lemina and Stuart Armstrong for Jack Stephens and Sims, and the visitors might have been back in it within three minutes when Yoshida glanced a header wide from Ward-Prowses corner.
However, Ki Sung-yueng was unfortunate not to extend Newcastles lead when his skidding 55th-minute strike evaded Gunns dive, but came back off the foot of a post.
LATEST PREMIER LEAGUE NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend red rival Watch Salah's frustrated reaction when Milner takes penalty off Liverpool star STONEWALL Mo Salah didnt dive and deserved penalty against Cardiff, says Danny Murphy VINNIE'S VERDICT Man United have got Alan Brazil syndrome they dont turn up REVEALED Premier League table: How the top-flight could change in midweek The Saints were enjoying their best spell, with Lemina giving them a foothold in midfield, and it was he who reduced the deficit four minutes later with an accomplished right-foot finish.
The Magpies wobbled as Southampton sensed an opportunity and Yoshida headed over from Redmonds 66th-minute cross when he might have done better.
Isaac Hayden would have calmed the nerves with a stinging 70th-minute volley but for a stunning save from Gunn, but Perez finally did so when he flicked Ritchies header home to claim the first Premier League hat-trick for the club since Georginio Wijnaldum scored four against Norwich in October 2015.
Los Blancos are keen to add a big name this summer having not yet replaced Cristiano Ronaldo since his move to Juventus last summer Real Madrid are reportedly still hopeful of signing Paris Saint-Germain star Neymar.
According to Marca, Bernebeu chiefs are keen on adding some firepower to assist Karim Benzema up front and Neymar is on top of their wish-list.
1 Neymar cost PSG 198m in 2017 Earlier this month, there were reports that Real were weighing-up a world record bid for the 27-year-old and were set to offer him wages of 40million over five seasons to make him the highest earner in football.
Neymar has long been on the radar of the La Liga giants and president Florentino Perez is still keen on luring him to the Spanish capital.
The report also states that Real are still interested in signing Eintracht Frankfurt striker Luka Jovic too.
Jovic has been a revelation in the Bundesliga this term, netting 17 goals in 27 league matches.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph However, Los Blancos chiefs want to make one major signing as Cristiano Ronaldo was never replaced with a big name at Madrid following his 100million summer switch to Juventus.
Signing Neymar would be the big statement the club will want to make.
The forward reportedly does not feel settled in Paris and may consider his future at the club after they were knocked out of the Champions League to Manchester United last month.
PSG may not be able to resist an offer of such magnitude amid Financial Fair Play concerns with UEFA still to decide on whether to investigate alleged breaches.
Tottenham boss Mauricio Pochettino believes his side deserved a draw in their defeat to Manchester City at the Etihad Stadium.
Pochettinos men were unable to inflict Premier League heartache on the Citizens after knocking them out of the Champions League on Wednesday, with Pep Guardiolas men winning 1-0 on Saturday.
2 Spurs were unable to inflict a double whammy on City However, Spurs worried their opponents on a few occasions with the likes of Heung-min Son and Lucas Moura going close.
And Pochettino spoke of his pride for his players despite being obviously disappointed with the result.
Speaking after the game, Pochettino said: I think it was a good performance.
I am so happy, so proud.
Of course disappointed with the result but it was a good performance, an even game and I think we deserved a draw but in football sometimes you dont get what you deserve.
LATEST PREMIER LEAGUE NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend red rival Watch Salah's frustrated reaction when Milner takes penalty off Liverpool star STONEWALL Mo Salah didnt dive and deserved penalty against Cardiff, says Danny Murphy VINNIE'S VERDICT Man United have got Alan Brazil syndrome they dont turn up REVEALED Premier League table: How the top-flight could change in midweek Its always difficult to dominate Manchester City.
You have to have unbelievable quality but I think the way we played was very good.
We can connect and create a lot of chances even though its difficult to do against Manchester City and Im disappointed with the result but congratulations to Man City.
Spurs had a penalty appeal waved away by referee Michael Oliver in the second-half when Dele Alli chested the ball down onto City defender Kyle Walkers arm.
Unlike in the Champions League, there was no Video Assistant Referee to consult.
2 Spurs had their penalty appeals rejected after Alli chested the ball onto Walker And when asked about his views on VAR use, Pochettino maintained his VAR concerns and said he respects the decision of the referee more despite being a huge beneficiary of the system on Wednesday night.
Pochettino added: I accept the performance of the referee.
The interpretation, the capacity to decide of course I accept.
I accept more from the referee than VAR.
Listen to the full interview Pochettino interview above!
Pep Guardiola hailed Manchester Citys Premier League win over Tottenham as one of the most incredible performances by his players.
City won the game 1-0 thanks to Phil Fodens early strike the victory coming three days after their heart-breaking Champions League exit at the hands of Spurs which saw Raheem Sterlings stoppage-time goal disallowed following a VAR check.
3 Foden celebrates his goal which won City the game The Premier League result means Guardiolas side are top of the table again, a point ahead of Liverpool who travel to Cardiff on Sunday, a game you can listen to live on talkSPORT.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Everton vs Manchester United (Sunday, 1:30pm) talkSPORT Cardiff vs Liverpool (Sunday, 4pm) talkSPORT And the Citizens boss was quick to praise the attitude of his players for what could be a crucial win in their bid to retain their crown.
Guardiola said: It was one of the most incredible performances because footballers are human beings with feelings.
And after what happened on Wednesday and to play the same team who are also going to get into the top four and have the adrenaline, it was the complete opposite for us but it was incredible the way we behaved.
But we are still in the race and we have to win all four games and were going to try.
We are sad.
We were so close [to reaching the Champions League semi-finals] and when that happens you need timebut we won so thats good.
3 Guardiola is happy with the recovery of his players following their brutal Champions League exit Fodens winner was the 18-year-olds first Premier League goal for his boyhood club and Guardiolas decision to start looks a very smart one given the midfielders strike was the decisive moment.
But when asked about whether he was pleased with the decision to play Foden, Guardiola gave a rather odd response.
He added: Because he scored a goal its a good decision, no?he was good.
However, it wasnt all good news for City during the match as key player Kevin De Bruyne was forced off in the 38th minute with an injury to his left leg.
3 De Bruyne was forced off the pitch in the first-half The extent of the Belgians injury is not clear and Guardiola was keen not to disclose what was exactly wrong with him.
Guardiola added: He [De Bruyne] felt something.
Hes been injured all season and when you come back you need to work before you meet the real condition to play.
De Jong has already signed ahead of next season and De Ligt is reportedly a target for the club Ajax have won many admirers this season and it appears inevitable their team will be carved up in the summer.
They have made it through to the semi-finals of the Champions League and claimed the scalps of Real Madrid and Juventus along the way.
They are also battling it out at the top of the Eredivisie with PSV Eindhoven.
8 Frenkie De Jong will be joining Barcelona in the summer Barcelona are one of the top teams expected to take the best of their young talents.
Frenkie De Jong is already joining the LaLiga club in the summer for around 65million.
8 Matthijs de Ligt celebrates after scoring against Juventus The 21-year-old midfielder has impressed on the biggest stage and has been touted as one of the brightest young talents in world football.
He may not be the only Ajax player who will be joining Barcelona next season, though.
Matthijs de Ligt has been linked with a move to the Spanish club with De Jong reportedly advising him to join him.
8 Barcelona manager Ernesto Valverde The 19-year-old captain will be leaving the Dutch club in the summer but it is just a question of the destination.
Both players could fit in nicely at Barcelona with the club planning for the future.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more The young pair could be seen as long term replacements for Gerard Pique and Sergio Busquets who are 32 and 30 respectively.Heres how Barcelona could line-up next season with both in the team.
Ernesto Valverde has favoured a 4-3-3 formation this season and could utilise the same with the two youngsters.
With Pique and Busquets Valverde may want De Jong and De Ligt to learn from to two experienced players before fully replacing them in the side.
De Jong is a natural in Busquets position but he may be pushed slightly further forward to accommodate them both.
Without Pique The defender is 32-years-old and next season may be his last in a Barcelona shirt.
He will finish his career with the club and looks set to take over as President when he calls it a day.
The manager may start preparing for the future without the defender and pair De Ligt with either Samuel Umtiti or Clement Lenglet.
Without Busquets Sergio Busquets has perhaps not got the recognition he deserves for the job he has done at Barcelona over the last decade.
He is likely to be a one man club and at 30 still has a few years left in him.
Valverde may look to prepare for life after the midfielder by deploying De Jong in the holding role.
Without Pique and Busquets It is hard to imagine Barcelona would not use both players for big La Liga and Champions League clashes.
But against lesser opponents, they may look to give both De Jong and De Ligt the experience of being the key components in the side.
Change of formation Valverde may look to move away from his favoured 4-3-3 formation in order to accommodate his new signings.
Ousmane Dembele could shift to the right in a 4-4-2 to allow both Busquets and De Jong to play in the middle.
All you need to know to tune into the action at St. James' Park Newcastle and Southampton go head-to-head this evening in a key game at the bottom of the Premier League table.
The two sides sit just above Brighton in 17th and will know victory today will all but see them secure safety.
2 Rafael Benitezs Newcastle host Southampton this evening Both won last time out but need to keep claiming points to banish any thoughts of relegation.
Tonights clash will be live on talkSPORT and heres how you can tune in.
LATEST PREMIER LEAGUE NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend red rival Watch Salah's frustrated reaction when Milner takes penalty off Liverpool star STONEWALL Mo Salah didnt dive and deserved penalty against Cardiff, says Danny Murphy VINNIE'S VERDICT Man United have got Alan Brazil syndrome they dont turn up REVEALED Premier League table: How the top-flight could change in midweek THEATRICAL Vinnie Jones says Mo Salah went to the drama school I never went to' starlet 'Sorry, Spurs fans' - Cascarino names 'next Gareth Bale' and he plays for Arsenal REVEALED Every Premier League clubs run-in - hardest to easiest with three games to go aussie god Liverpool legend Robbie Fowler to be appointed Brisbane Roar manager Newcastle vs Southampton: How to listen Full commentary from St. James Park will be live on talkSPORT, with our coverage getting underway from 5pm.
Laura Woods will bring you all the build-up with Sam Matterface and Stuart Pearce on commentary duty.
To tune in to the top-flight action just click here for the live stream or click the radio player below.
You can also listen through the talkSPORT App, on DAB Digital Radio or on MW 1053 or 1089.
For more information about how to listen LIVE on talkSPORT click here.
Newcastle vs Southampton: Kick-off time The Premier League clash will get underway at 5:30pm on Saturday, April 20.
The reverse fixture in October finished goalless at St Marys Stadium.
2 Raplh Hasenhuttls Southampton face Newcastle tonight Newcastle vs Southampton: Line-ups Newcastle: Dubravka, Manquillo, Schar, Lascelles, Dummett, Ritchie, Perez, Ki, Hayden, Almiron, Rondon.
Subs: Shelvey, Diame, Muto, Fernandez, Yedlin, Darlow, Atsu.
Southampton: Gunn, Bednarek, Yoshida, Stephens, Ward-Prowse, Romeu, Hojbjerg, Bertrand, Sims, Redmond, Ings.
Subs: Long, Austin, Armstrong, Lemina, Forster, Slattery, Ramsay.
Referee: Anthony Taylor
All you need to know to tune into the Premier League clash West Ham and Leicester go head-to-head in east London this afternoon.
The Premier League clash will be live on talkSPORT 2 and heres how you can tune in to catch it.
1 Jamie Vardy and Leicester face West Ham this afternoon West Ham vs Leicester: How to listen Full commentary from the London Stadium will be live on talkSPORT 2, with our coverage getting underway from 12pm.
Russ Williams will bring you all the build-up and to tune in to full commentary just click here for the live stream or click the radio player below.
You can also listen through the talkSPORT App, on DAB Digital Radio or on MW 1053 or 1089.
For more information about how to listen LIVE on talkSPORT click here.
West Ham vs Leicester: Kick-off time The Premier League clash will get underway at 3pm on Saturday, April 20.
The reverse fixture in October finished 1-1 after Wilfred Ndidi cancelled out Fabian Balbuenas opener.
LATEST PREMIER LEAGUE NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend red rival Watch Salah's frustrated reaction when Milner takes penalty off Liverpool star STONEWALL Mo Salah didnt dive and deserved penalty against Cardiff, says Danny Murphy VINNIE'S VERDICT Man United have got Alan Brazil syndrome they dont turn up REVEALED Premier League table: How the top-flight could change in midweek THEATRICAL Vinnie Jones says Mo Salah went to the drama school I never went to' starlet 'Sorry, Spurs fans' - Cascarino names 'next Gareth Bale' and he plays for Arsenal REVEALED Every Premier League clubs run-in - hardest to easiest with three games to go aussie god Liverpool legend Robbie Fowler to be appointed Brisbane Roar manager West Ham vs Leicester: Line-ups West Ham: Fabianski, Zabaleta, Balbuena, Ogbonna, Masuaku, Rice, Antonio, Noble, Snodgrass, Anderson, Arnautovic.
Subs: Adrian, Obiang, Wilshere, Diop, Fredericks, Lucas Perez, Diangana.
Leicester: Schmeichel, Pereira, Evans, Maguire, Chilwell, Ndidi, Gray, Tielemans, Maddison, Albrighton, Vardy.
Subs: Morgan, Iheanacho, Ward, Barnes, Okazaki, Mendy, Fuchs.
Referee: Lee Probert
Del Boy will be in action this weekend in a huge night of boxing at the O2 Arena Derek Chisora returns to action this weekend as part of a huge heavyweight double-header from the O2.
Del Boy will be back at the famous London arena following his brutal eleventh-round KO defeat to Dillian Whyte back in December.
2 Derek Chisora takes on Senad Gashi this weekend Now at 35 and with a pro record of 29-9, Chisora was expected to hang up his gloves and call it a day after that rematch loss.
But hes still convinced of his world title chances and is looking to see off German Senad Gashi this weekend before taking aim at either Joseph Parker or Oleksandr Usyk later this year.
LATEST BOXING NEWS you Khan't go on Glenn McCrory: Amir Khan should fight Kell Brook or retire from boxing IN DENIAL 'Amir Khan did quit and should retire before he gets seriously hurt' Now or never Amir Khan vs Kell Brook: Barry Hearn says they need to fight this year TEMPTED?
Andre Ward refuses to rule out comeback and admits he misses boxing 'a lot' DISPUTE 'You didn't quit?'
- Terence Crawford argues with Amir Khan at press conference REACTION Khan reveals he suffered elbow injury before Crawford loss; vows not to retire It wasn't me Fans blast Crawford for denying low blow to Khan that replays clearly prove Low Blow, Kell Kell Brook claims Khan quit Vs Crawford because he 'looked for a way out' BELOW THE BELT Crawford vs Khan result: Brit loses by bizarre, controversial stoppage EXCUSE?
Crawford vs Khan: Fans slate Brit for using low blow to 'quit' FIGHT NIGHT Crawford vs Khan live result: Khan loses amid bizarre low blow finish 'I'm the new Mayweather' Khan Vs Crawford: fans rave about Shakur Stevenson undercard win Derek Chisora vs Senad Gashi: When is it and what time?
The big fight night is set for Saturday, April 20 and theres a packed card at the O2 Arena in London.
Ring walks for the main event are expected around 10pm.
As well as Chisora vs Gashi, another heavyweight showdown between Dave Allen and Lucas Browne will be contested.
The likes of Josh Kelly, Joe Cordina and Conor Benn will also be in action.
Derek Chisora vs Senad Gashi: TV channel and live stream details You can catch all the evenings drama on Sky Sports Action from 7pm.
If you arent a Sky subscriber, grab a NOW TV pass from 8.99 to stream it on your mobile, tablet, PC, TV box or games console.
2 Derek Chisora will be in action at the O2 Arena on Saturday Derek Chisora vs Senad Gashi: Full undercard Theres a packed schedule on what is sure to be an entertaining night in the capital.
Browne makes the long trip from Australia to face the rejuvenated fan-favourite Allen, whilst Cordina puts his unbeaten record on the line against Paul Townend in a British title showdown.
Derek Chisora vs Senad Gashi (heavyweight) David Allen vs Lucas Browne (heavyweight) Joe Cordina vs Andy Townend (British lightweight title) Josh Kelly vs Prtzemyslaw Runowski (welterweight) Conor Benn vs TBA Shannan Courtenay vs TBA Nikita Ababiy vs TBA
The striker was signed for 75million from Everton in 2017 but has been playing second fiddle to Marcus Rashford since Ole Gunnar Solskjaer took charge in December Manchester United are prepared to listen to offers for striker Romelu Lukaku this summer, according to reports.
The Belgian seems open to a move away from Old Trafford and United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has promised a ruthless overhaul in the next transfer window.
2 Big changes are expected to happen at Old Trafford and Solskjaer could offload Lukaku The Daily Telegraph writes that Inter Milan, Paris Saint-Germain and Bayern Munich are believed to be interested but the Red Devils will only let Lukaku go if an acceptable bid arrives.
Lukakus representative Federico Pastorello appeared to be putting the player on the market when admitting in a TV interview earlier this month, saying the strikers future was very open and a move to Italy appealed to Lukaku as he is someone who loves to know a different culture and different football.
Lukaku has previously talked up the prospect of playing in Italy in the past.
Antonio Conte, who is also represented by Pastorello, has been linked with the Inter and Juventus jobs and it is understood he would be interested in signing Lukaku if he got either of those jobs.
2 Lukaku has had to play second fiddle to Marcus Rashford since Solskjaer too charge The former Chelsea boss missed out on Lukaku when the player decided to choose Old Trafford over Stamford Bridge following an initial 75million move from Everton.
The Toffees will also be keen for Lukaku to make the move as they stand to make an additional 5m windfall under the terms of the deal if he was to leave United this summer.
Lukaku is in line to face his former club at Goodison Park on Sunday, a game you can listen to live on talkSPORT, kick-off 1:30pm.
LIVE ON talkSPORT talkSPORT is your home of live football!
Here's what's coming up on talkSPORT and talkSPORT 2... Everton vs Manchester United (Sunday, 1:30pm) talkSPORT Cardiff vs Liverpool (Sunday, 4pm) talkSPORT However, he has fallen below Marcus Rashford in the pecking order as Uniteds first choice striker since Solskjaer took charge of the club in December.
The sale of Lukaku could also help fund new signings in what looks set to be a very busy summer for the club.
But there is the obstacle of finding a club that would pay the sizeable transfer fee combined with the players wages.
Lukaku, 25, currently earns 255,000 a week at United.
LATEST TRANSFER NEWS MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target concerns Paul Pogba's wage demands 'could block' potential Real Madrid switch gossip Liverpool and Arsenal 'ready to launch bids' for in-demand Hazard gossip Chelsea want 'perfect replacement' Coutinho if Eden Hazard leaves this summer overhaul How Man United could line-up with targets next season, including Felix and Pepe MORE FIREPOWER Sam Allardyce outlines what Everton need to become top six club PAPER TALK Liverpool and Arsenal join race for Hazard, Chelsea eye Coutinho, Pogba latest United may also be open to offers for flop Alexis Sanchez but the Chileans 500,000 a week wages will make it very difficult to sell him unless there are big compromises.
The likes of Antonio Valencia, Marcos Rojo, Ander Herrera and Juan Mata are among those likely or expected to go.
Meanwhile, uncertainty surrounds Eric Baillys future as well as goalkeeper David de Gea, who is coming up to the final year of his contract.
The Portuguese playmaker has been class on and off the pitch for Pep Guardiola's title-chasing side this season Bernardo Silva is quickly becoming one of the most likeable players in the Premier League.
Not only is he technically superb and unsurprisingly a nominee for the PFA Player of the Year award, but he also seems to be a genuinely good bloke.
1 Foden netted his first Premier League goal for Man City And that was the case again moments after Man City claimed a crucial three points against Spurs on Saturday afternoon.
Phil Foden scored the match-winning goal after just five minutes and, despite Mauricio Pochettinos side looking very dangerous on the counter, City clung onto the victory to return to the top of the table.
Silva was deservedly named Man of the Match for his tireless efforts, but in his post match interview he decided to gift his award to Foden, whom he thought was more deserving.
Have a look at a clip of the interview below LATEST FOOTBALL STORIES moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph Great touch from Bernardo Silva giving his Man of the Match award to Phil Foden!
pic.twitter.com/GdAvNpu3zB Soccer AM (@SoccerAM) April 20, 2019 It was a classy gesture from a classy player and Foden was also very much deserving of the award after becoming Citys third youngest Premier League goalscorer ever.
Guardiolas side are next in action on Wednesday as they take on bitter rivals Man United at Old Trafford.
While title rivals Liverpool travel to Cardiff on Sunday in the hope of leapfrogging City at the top of the standings.
Premier League duo look set for disappointment in the race to sign the Argentine ace Arsenal and Liverpool are set for disappoint as the agent for transfer target Nicolas Tagliafico admitted Italy was a prioty for the Argentine ace.
Ajax left-back Tagliafico has been some what of a late bloomer, moving to Europe with the Dutch giants last January aged 26.
1 Ajax star Nicolas Tagliafico in action against Juventus.
Hes suitably impressed though as they storm into the Champions League semi-finals where they will now meet Tottenham Hotspur.
According to Football.London, Arsenal are keen on signing a left-back in the summer and attempting to land Tagliafico is a sensible option, while Liverpool will need to replace outgoing backup Alberto Moreno.
Inter Milan have also been rumours with a move for the player and his representative has conceded a Serie A switch has a big appeal.
Ricardo Schlieper told FC Inter News : Inter and Italian football are always attractive destinations for Argentine players.
Lets not forget, like it was once said, that were Italians who speak Spanish.
Everythings very familiar.
Its like being at home.
LATEST FOOTBALL STORIES moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph Schlieper further suggested that Tagliafico had been a priority for Italy.
He continued: The management of our players in your country is by Branchini.
Tagliafico has always been our priority for Italy, but in the most appropriate moment we will find the right place.
We will see what happens.
The Ivory Coast forward was the subject of intense transfer speculation last summer but ended the rumours by signing a new 130k-a-week deal with the south London club Wilfried Zaha has given the strongest indication yet that he is ready to leave Crystal Palace in order to play Champions League football.
Zaha was the subject of intense transfer speculation last summer but ended the rumours by signing a new 130,000-a-week deal with the south London club.
2 Zaha has insisted he is too ambitious not to play for a bigger club The 26-year-old has once again been a standout performer for the Eagles this season, netting eight goals and adding three assists in 30 league matches.
And Palaces Premier League future for next season is all-but confirmed as they sit eight points clear of the relegation zone with four games left to play.
However, the Ivory Coast international has now set his sights on a move, insisting he wants to fulfil his dream of playing in the Champions League.
Speaking to the Mail, he said: Im too ambitious.
And not just ambitious to play for a top club, but to win things at club level and with the Ivory Coast.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph For me to be better to achieve what I know I am capable of, I have to aim to play at the very highest level, to win trophies.
Im blessed to have come this far in my playing career but I feel like there I so much more to offer.
I have to experience the Champions League.
I just need the opportunity, thats it.
Ill do the rest.
2 Although at times inconsistent, Zaha has developed into a fine player in his second spell at Selhurst Park Zaha spent two years with Man United from 2013-2015 but failed to make an impact at Old Trafford, making just four appearances in all competitions.
He has now spent almost five seasons at Selhurst Park, netting 29 league goals, and following his remarks there is sure to be a host of clubs willing to prise him away from south London.
The striker's contract at Chelsea will expire in the summer but Sarri has said the club have agreed to activate a year-long extension on his deal Maurizio Sarri says Olivier Giroud will stay at Chelsea next season despite the forward voicing his doubts about his future at the club.
The striker, 32, has only started seven times in the Premier League this season and has only made six league appearances since the arrival of Gonzalo Higuain arrived in January.
2 Giroud has had to play second fiddle to Higuain in the second half of the season The France international claimed hes even had offers from other clubs in the lead up to Chelseas Europa League triumph over Slavia Prague a game where Giroud scored a goal.
Girouds current deal is set to expire in the summer but his manager has revealed the club have agreed to activate a year-long extension.
On his players future, Sarri told Sky Sports News: He is sure, because the club has an option for another year, another season.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more I spoke to the club two days ago and we agreed to exercise the option.
So, he will remain.
He cannot do anything, but I spoke with the club and I spoke with Marina [Granovskaia] two days ago and Olivier will remain with us and she didnt say to me anything about this question.
The Blues are now allowed to sign players for the next two transfer windows after being sanctioned by FIFA for breaking rules regarding the signing of overseas players under the age of 18.
Pep Guardiola's side crashed out of Europe in midweek to Spurs after Raheem Sterling was denied a late winner by VAR - and many players now want out get me out Spanish media are reporting Leroy Sane and Gabriel Jesus are just two of eight Manchester City players who have asked to leave the club in the summer.
Neither Sane or Jesus started in Man Citys Champions League victory over Spurs in midweek, where Pep Guardiolas side cruelly crashed out of the competition on away goals.
2 Sane is reportedly one of the players who wants to leave Man City in the summer According to Spanish publication El Chiringuito, there are seven or eight players in Pep Guardiolas squad who are seeking a move away in the summer.
The reports claims that both players are unhappy at their lack of playing time this season, having regularly been named on the bench in key matches.
The German winger has been an unused substitute in four of the last eight Premier League matches, with Raheem Sterling and Bernardo Silva preferred to him in the line-up.
While Jesus has has started just eight games throughout the season, coming off the bench on 18 occasions.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more MAKEOVER Arsenal need as big a clear out as Man United this summer - Gunners legend crunch time Brentford vs Leeds on talkSPORT: Live commentary stream and confirmed teams transfer race Liverpool 'emerge as favourites' to sign Arsenal and Man United target decorated Dani Alves becomes most successful player in history following PSG title triumph Man City are still on for a domestic treble this season.
The have already triumphed in the Carabao Cup and are in the FA Cup final against Watford.
While they are currently second in the league standings with a game in hand over Liverpool who are two points ahead.
And the squad have funded 26 coaches for fans to watch the final at Wembley.
2 Sane and Jesus are reportedly unhappy at Man City Captain Vincent Kompany said: The support from our fans throughout the season has been nothing short of incredible.
Travelling to so many games in league and cup competitions, both home and away, is not easy to do and is something that every player in our squad values and appreciates.
We still have so much to fight for this season, and this is our way of saying thank you to them for being with us every step of the way.
Goals from Jermain Defoe, Ryan Jack and Nikola Katic means Rangers' Glasgow rivals Celtic will not be crowned champions THIS weekend Celtic will have to wait to celebrate their Scottish Premiership title for one more week at least after Rangers beat Hearts 3-1 at Tynecastle.
Jermain Defoe, Ryan Jack and Nikola Katic were on the scoresheet meaning Neil Lennons champions elect will have to put the champagne on ice, at least until next weekends clash with Kilmarnock at Celtic Park.
2 Defoe opened the scoring to seal the deserved win for Rangers The Hoops, who were hoping to celebrate their eighth straight title against Hibernian on Sunday, have now had their lead at the top temporarily cut back to eight points after seeing Steven Gerrards side once again dominate Craig Leveins William Hill Scottish Cup finalists.
Hearts should have been on a high after booking their slot in next months Hampden clash with Lennons triple treble-chasers but all they had to cheer was Steven MacLeans late consolation effort.
For the fourth time this season, Hearts contributed to their own downfall against Rangers by failing to match up to the Light Blues desire when pressing.
This was a big chance for the Jambos squad to press their claim for a starting slot on cup final day but some may find themselves disappointed come May 25 after this display.
LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS moment gone Chelsea miss golden opportunity to go third after draw with Burnley over?
Bielsa gives damning verdict on Leeds' automatic promotion hopes after sorry weekend slammed Jamie Carragher rips into Arsenal defender: 'Hes been a mess since he joined' breakthrough Chelsea vs Burnley team news: Hudson-Odoi earns fourth consecutive start falling apart Leeds' automatic promotion hopes suffer serious blow with defeat at Brentford how?
'Most stonewall penalty ever' - Leeds fans can't believe decision against Brentford title clinched Lincoln City crowned League Two champions review Championship: Norwich forced to wait for promotion, Derby leave it late, plus more Rangers, who have now racked up seven straight wins against Hearts, were still without the suspended Alfredo Morelos and Ryan Kent, while Hearts had to make a late swap with Craig Wighton taking over from the ill Sean Clare.
As usual, the tight surroundings in Gorgie made for a combative affair and there was not much in it early on.
Neither side could afford to be half-hearted and it was the Jambos who paid the price 15 minutes in as Wighton allowed Jon Flanagan to slide in and rob possession.
Glen Kamara pounced on the loose ball and immediately sent Defoe racing in behind.
The veteran striker got his nose in front of John Souttar and the reported Rangers target could do nothing as the Englishman beat Zdenek Zlamal for his seventh Rangers strike.
The goal did jolt a response from Leveins team.
Uche Ikpeazu was allowed to roll Katic far too easily on the edge of the Rangers box but his wild shot soared over.
The big frontman then got his head to Zlamals long punt, sending Wighton racing beyond Connor Goldson, but the former Dundee man dragged his attempt wide.
2 The result means Celtic will not be crowned champions this weekend even if they beat Hibernian on Sunday And with nine minutes of the opening period to play, Rangers hunger to win the ball again got the better of the hosts.
Jack hared in to close down Ollie Bozanic, stripping the Australian of the ball on halfway before feeding it to Daniel Candeias.
The midfielder did not hang about and, as he raced beyond Arnaud Djoum, his Portuguese colleague returned the ball into his path with only Zlamal to beat and Jack did the rest with a cool finish.
The clash was the first to be played at Tynecastle since chairwoman Ann Budge took the surprise decision to close a section of the Wheatfield Stand in a bid to combat recent incidents of fan misbehaviour.
But the rest of the home stands were soon starting to empty as Katic added number three in the 48th minute.
Steven Davis rolled a short corner to Candeias, who hung up a cross to the back post for the big Croatian defender to slide home.
MacLean replaced Wighton midway through the second period and pulled one back in the 74 minute as his header from Jake Mulraneys cross found the corner of the net.
But it was Rangers who came closest to adding another as Zlamal was forced to make two late stops to deny Glenn Middleton and Scott Arfield.
The Suns fired head coach Igor Kokoskov on Monday, the team announced.
Kokoskov went 1963 in his first season with Phoenix in 2018-19.
Kokoskov was hired by Phoenix in May 2018 as the first European-born coach in NBA history.
He worked as an assistant in the NBA since 2000, most recently working with the Jazz from 2015-18.
Kokoskov was the Suns' lead assistant coach from 2008-13.
Phoenix will reportedly target 76ers assistant Monty Williams, according to Wojnarowski.
The Lakers have already interviewed Williams along with former Cavaliers head coach Tyronn Lue.
The Suns have not made the playoffs since 2010.
They have not finished the season with a winning record since 2013-14.
Phoenix has a 14% chance at the No.
1 pick in June's draft, tied with the Knicks and Cavaliers.
Phoenix has now cycled through five coaches in the last four seasons.
Mike D'Anoni is the last Suns coach to stay with Phoenix for five years, with his tenure spanning 2003-08.
Monday was about moving on for the Bucks.
For Milwaukee, that meant getting to where Boston is already, and letting the Celtics and the league know these arent the same Bucks weve seen for the better part of this century.
This was the first time since 2001, when Ray Allen, Sam Cassell and Glenn Robinson led the Bucks to the Eastern conference finals, that this franchise advanced in the playoffs.
Milwaukee's 127-104 win over Detroit clinched the squads first four-game sweep since 1983 when it took down Larry Birds Celtics.
Now Mike Budenholzer brings one of the leagues most lethal three-point shooting teams and one of the worlds most majestic unicorns into the second round after a dominating opening series.
The closeout game was a reminder of what makes this team so scary to the rest of the East and a potential threat to Golden State in June.
If you didnt already know, stopping Giannis Antetokounmpo is practically an impossible mission.
But if anybody is up for that challenge, its Brad Stevens.
With Aaron Baynes, Al Horford, Marcus Morris, Jaylen Brown and Jayson Tatum at his disposal, hes got a cast that is likely going to cause Antetokounmpo more fits than the bevy of Pistons he put into foul trouble Monday night.
It's highly likely the paint wont be easy to access in the conference semifinals, so Antetokounmpo will have to either finish above defenders and through contact to put the pressure on officials to send him to the foul line.
Calls are going to be harder to get the deeper the Bucks get in the postseason, so Antetokounmpo should revel in the 20 free throws he had during his 41-point outing that ended Detroits season.
He should also make sure he carries over the tricks that worked best to get the whistles in his favor.
His 9.5 free-throw attempts per night in the regular season were just as important as his crowd-detonating dunks and booming blocks even though you didnt see those on most highlight reels.
Giannis can keep the Celtics on edge and rack up some confidence if he can get to the charity stripe and knock down his shots.
Whether stopping a run or getting points late in the game, this a key to Milwaukees future success.
And when it comes to those specific situations, the shooters will also be major.
Khris Middleton was amazing against Boston last season and if he can perform close to that level this year, the Bucks should feel great about their chances.
In addition to the other All-Star on Milwaukees roster, Eric Bledsoe, Brook Lopez and Nikola Mirotic will also need to play some of their best ball.
If Malcolm Brogdon can return at some point in the second round from his injury, the Bucks will be in perfect position.
Spacing the floor to give Antetokounmpo maximum room and being reliable enough to trust late so Antetokounmpo doesnt force a shot just for the sake of being the hero on a given night could be the difference in the series.
And when Terry Rozier has the crowd thinking about Drew Bledsoe or Gordon Hayward is looking like he did pre-injury or Kyrie Irving hits a late-game triple, these guys will need to stop the bleeding and supply responses to the oppositions spurts alongside their MVP-candidate and make sure his burden never gets too big.
With the first round officially in the rearview, the Bucks will naturally see the conference finals coming up on the horizon.
But before they can get back to the place they were at in 2001, they need to conquer the demon that ended their 2018 and learn from their recent history.
Homecourt advantage is flipped from the previous meeting, and considering that series went seven games with the home team winning each, that leverage is a pretty big deal for Milwaukee.
After eight first-round departures since their last conference finals trip, early exits now feel like a part of the Bucks past.
This series will give us a glimpse into their future.
The underdog prevails yet again.
With its playoff hopes on the line in overtime, Nashville was hoping to force a Game 7.
But instead it became the latest victim of the first-round upsets that have been trending this postseason, as the Stars eliminated the Predators with a 21 Game 6 win.
In a game that turned into a battle between Pekka Rinne and Ben Bishop, Dallass John Klingberg would be the one to solve the puzzle with a beauty of a wrister 17:02 into overtime.
Nashville got off to another quick start, unleashing 19 shots in the first period, one of those giving the team the early lead when P.K.
Subban took a shot from the point and Austin Watson was there to send home the rebound.
Dallas equalized it in the second and then it turned into a goalie show.
Both stretched and flashed their gloves to make impressive saves, particularly in a third-period track meet that could have caused whiplash.
The Stars came out fast to start that frame, with Esa Lindell ringing a shot off the post early in the period.
Dallas kept the pressure on Rinne, but Nashville responded with several chances of its own.
Both sides had odd-man rushes and breakaways aplenty, but Bishop and Rinne were locked in.
Nashville, which hadnt scored a power-play goal all postseason, was granted another chance with the man advantage with less than two minutes left when Blake Comeau was called for tripping.
But it wouldnt be the moment the regular seasons worst power play broke through, so this one needed extra time.
The Predators join the Lightning and Flames as regular season division champions to be ousted in the opening round, and the Islanders remain the lone higher seed to win its first-round series so far.
The Stars will play the Blues in the only second-round series that is set as of Monday night.
DAL wins series 42 | Box Score | Full Recap HURRICANES 5, CAPITALS 2 Home ice proved crucial yet again in this series as the Hurricanes made the first lead change of the series to force a Game 7, but the win didnt come without at least a little bit of controversy along the way.
The Capitals had control early on with Brett Connolly scoring five minutes into the game, picking up the puck along the boards behind the net and skating around untouched to go top shelf on Petr Mrazek.
Warren Foegele (because who else?)
tied it up a few minutes later just after a power play expired, grabbing up a rebound and doing a little spin move from the high slot that went right past Braden Holtby.
Alex Ovechkin regained Washingtons lead with 4:48 left in the first, picking up the puck in transition and firing it around a sliding Jaccob Slavin, then breaking out into an enthusiastic celebration, but his enthusiasm would later grow into frustration.
With Carolina leading 32 in the third thanks to goals from Teuvo Teravainen and Jordan Staal, the Capitals thought they had evened it back up when Evgeny Kuznetsov put a shot on net and Ovechkin poked it through.
But the goal was immediately waved off.
Washington challenged and the call was upheld because of goaltender interference, though this was not explained by the on-ice officials.
Justin Williams scored an insurance goal shortly after with a deflection that went five-hole on Holtby and Dougie Hamilton got an empty-netter to close it out and send this back to Washington, where the Canes will try to break another series pattern and be the first to win on the road.
Series tied 33 | Box Score | Full Recap HIGHLIGHT OF THE NIGHT This was one of the many saves made (on both ends of the ice) in the third period that sent this game to overtime.
Colton Sissons put the moves on Bishop, who had to look back to make sure the puck didnt go in the net.
THREE STARS 1.
Ben Bishop, DAL The Stars didnt have the fastest starts for the majority of this series (and the regular season for that matter), but Bishop was there to keep them in it while his offense warmed up.
He had a playoff career-high 47 saves for Dallas in Game 6.
2.
Pekka Rinne, NSH It certainly wasnt the ending Rinne had in mind, but the 2018 Vezina winner stopped 49 shots, a playoff best for the netminder.
3.
John Klingberg, DAL If there were any moment to score your second-ever playoff goal, in overtime to clinch a series sounds like a good time.
There might not be any baseball axiom crueler than TINSTAPP, but it stings so much only because its so true.
Its been roughly two decades since the acronym was originally coined by one of the founders of Baseball Prospectusthere is no such thing as a pitching prospectbut it feels more real than it ever has.
Pitching has never been so good, so rich, so eminently gif-able, and, as part of this package, has never been so tricky to consistently and healthily develop.
Baseball has been blessed with an abundance of triple-digit fastballs, wipe-out sliders, and spin-loaded curves; the whole endeavor is literally and figuratively stretching the limits of the human arm.
For any individual pitch, beauty and power can be quantified with astonishing precision.
And, yet, the rest of the equation can remain terrifyingly murky.
Where do you draw lines around all the terrible dumb luck no one can predict?
Whose crazy heat makes him a prospect versus an injury risk?
Whose modest development looks reasonable versus disappointing?
Who is a reliable pitching prospect?
Does such a thing even exist anymore?
Can it ever?
TINSTAPP is not particularly fun to embrace.
How could it be?
Its fun to watch a guy embarrass every hitter he sees in Double-A.
Its fun to question the radar gun in a tiny old park, because how can a skinny kid youve never heard of throw this hard?
Its fun to go wish-casting.
Its not fun to look at any organizational depth chart and remind everyone that half of these pitchers will never make it and a third of them will probably end up with Tommy John surgery and maybe only two or three out of the remaining fraction will actually pitch how theyve dreamed of pitching.
Its not fun to remind everyone that this whole thing can be fickle and cruel and brutally unyielding.
Mark Goldman/Icon Sportswire via Getty Images Its easy to ignore, then.
Its easy to look at a guy and believe he simply has to be an exceptionhe has to be good enough to be a sure bet to make the whole thing work.
It was easy to look at Nick Burdi in 2014, the powerful college closer picked in the second round of the draft, and think about all of this.
It was easy to watch the insane slider and the flirting-with-triple-digits fastball and believe.
Youd have watched him start his first full season in organized ball in Double-A: The Twins apparently believed in him this way, too.
And, then, the foundation of faith began to feel a little less solid.
TINSTAAPs first creeping doubts began to poke through.
Burdi couldnt stop walking guys, earning him a demotion down to High-A, and the following year, he couldnt stay healthy.
It was one of the most common stories in baseball, maybe, lived out by dozens and dozens of pitchers each season, names on ranked lists fading out into anonymity, but this didnt make it any less painful to watch.
That slider, man!
It was still there.
It was all still there for Nick Burdi.
And then it wasnt: Tommy John in 2017, Rule 5 Draft a few months later, a shift to a new club, a recovery that stretched into the next season.
And then it was back.
In 10 games in 2019, Burdi was everything he had once been projected to be.
He faced 34 batters and struck out 17.
(He walked just two.)
It sounds ridiculous to declare a happy ending for a rookie, but it felt like one.
It was all there.
It felt like there was, finally, such thing as a pitching prospect.
Nick Burdi has a 50% strikeout rate, a 99 MPH fastball, a slider that he throws 56% of the time, and now I can see why: pic.twitter.com/WX4LUtiUUP Mike Petriello (@mike_petriello) April 22, 2019 And in Game 11, it seemed to disappear.
Video of the Nick Burdi injury pic.twitter.com/GFxnDL3rO7 zach (@zachleft) April 23, 2019 The Pirates have not announced anything definitive yet; maybe it is not as bad as it looks, though it certainly looks quite bad.
But, beyond that, it feelsit feels like a reminder of the cruelest reality in baseball, of a sense of security so flimsy and cheap that it is not a house of cards so much as simply a hologram of one, of the games foundational truth that there can be no such thing as any sure thing.
KANNAPOLIS, N.C. Brenda Jackson, mother of Dale Earnhardt Jr. and a longtime employee at JR Motorsports alongside her daughter Kelley Earnhardt Miller, has died following a battle with cancer.
She was 65.
The team announced her death Monday.
Jackson was the daughter of NASCAR fabricator Robert Gee, who built cars for various racers including the late Dale Earnhardt.
She married Earnhardt in 1972, had two children, and Dale Jr. and Kelley remained with their mother when the couple separated and Earnhardt chased a career in NASCAR.
Im glad her suffering has ended and she can be at peace.
She would be in tears of happiness over the words of support and remembrance shes been shown today.
Our family appreciates it as well.
She will live in our hearts forever.
https://t.co/ioFclazYhI Dale Earnhardt Jr. (@DaleJr) April 23, 2019 Miss Brenda, we thank you for the all memories and the laughter.
The office wont be the same without you.
Rest in peace.
pic.twitter.com/CtPxq6VNWH JR Motorsports (@JRMotorsports) April 22, 2019 After a fire left the trio homeless, Jackson moved to Virginia and Dale Jr. and Kelley relocated to live with their father.
She married Norfolk firefighter Willie Jackson in 1985 and returned to North Carolina to work with Kelley and Dale Jr. Jackson joined the race team owned by her two children as an accounting specialist in 2004.
Dale Earnhardt was killed in a crash on the final lap of the 2001 Daytona 500.
Jackson was a staunch supporter of her sons decision to retire from full-time racing because of concussions, and she was a tireless supporter of The Dale Jr. Foundation and other charitable efforts.
She is survived by her husband, two children, a stepdaughter, six grandchildren and two brothers.
Sign Up for our Newsletter Don't get stuck on the sidelines!
Sign up to get exclusives, daily highlights, analysis and moredelivered right to your inbox!
LOS ANGELES Prosecutors say tennis broadcaster and coach Justin Gimelstob pleaded no contest to misdemeanor assault for attacking a former friend in Los Angeles on Halloween 2017.
The district attorney's office says the 42-year-old former pro player was sentenced Monday to three years of probation, 60 days of community service and a year's worth of anger management classes.
Prosecutors said Gimelstob attacked Randall Kaplan from behind as they trick-or-treated with their kids on Oct. 31, 2017.
The motive is unknown.
In a statement to the court Monday, Kaplan said Gimelstob struck him multiple times and threatened to kill him.
Kaplan's wife, Madison, described being terrified as she witnessed the assault.
Gimelstob's lawyer says he pleaded no contest ''to move on with his professional life.''
Phillies' rightfielder Bryce Harper was ejected from the dugout in Monday night's game and went absolutely nuts.
In the top of the fourth with the Phillies trailing the Mets 21, Harper was called out on strikes for the first out of the inning.
He was upset with the second strike called in his at-bat, and after umpire Mark Carslon called a high strike on Cesar Hernndez, Harper yelled at Carlson from the dugout and was ejected.
Phillies manager Gabe Kapler then stormed out of the dugout to talk with Carlson.
Harper then ran out to Carlson before Kapler pushed him away from the umpire.
Bryce just got ejected from the dugout and he was HEATED (via @SNYtv)pic.twitter.com/WlyYcSy0yt Sports Illustrated (@SInow) April 23, 2019 These were the at-bats that annoyed the Phillies.
pic.twitter.com/mu3lLQcEC8 Matt Gelb (@MattGelb) April 23, 2019 Kapler was not ejected.
Harper discussed his ejection postgame.
"These games matter, they matter now they matter in September.
Go out tomorrow and try to win a ball game," Harper said, according to NBC Sports Philadelphia's Michael Barkann.
"Im usually zero to 100 anyways.
But like I said cant happen gotta be there for our team and organization and fans.
Phillies starting pitcher Jake Arrieta was unhappy with Harper's ejection when speaking with reporters postgame.
We need him in rightfield, Arrieta said, according to Newsday's David Lennon.
I dont care how bad the umpire is.
We need him in rightfield and he wasnt there.
That hurts.
MLB.com's Todd Zolecki reported that Harper is believed to be first Phillies player ejected from a game since Justin DeFratus on June 16, 2015.
Harper's ejection also snapped his on-base streak: He had reached base in every game to start the season.
The entire video of Harper's ejection can be found here.
Kings head coach Luke Walton is accused of sexually assaulting former Spectrum SportsNet host Kelli Tennant, as first reported by TMZ.
According to the Los Angeles Times' Tania Ganguli, the lawsuit Tennant filed specifically mentions the assault occurred while Walton was a Golden State Warriors assistant coach.
Sacramento confirmed it is "aware of the report" but declined to comment, per Ganguli.
Tennant claimed Walton met her in a Santa Monica hotel room and "forced himself on her."
Tennant reportedly "had a business relationship that went back several years [with Walton] and she wanted him to write a foreword."
Walton authored the forward to a book Tennant published in 2014.
Walton's reps declined to comment on the report, per TMZ.
Sacramento hired Walton on April 13 to replace former head coach Dave Joerger.
He parted ways with the Lakers on April 10 after going 98148 in three seasons.
"We are aware of the report and are gathering additional information," the Kings said in a statement, according to NBC Sports' Kurt Helin.
"We have no further comment at this time, The Lakers released a statement regarding Walton on Monday night.
This alleged incident took place before Luke Walton was the Head Coach of the Los Angeles Lakers," the Lakers statement read.
"At no time before or during his employment here was this allegation reported to the Lakers.
If it had been, we would have immediately commenced an investigation and notified the NBA.
Since Luke Walton is now under contract to another team, we will have no further comment.
Walton served as an assistant head coach with the Warriors from 2014-16.
He led Golden State to a 394 start in 2015-16 as an interim head coach as Steve Kerr recovered from offseason back surgery.
The Warriors also issued a statement on Monday, per Ganguli.
"We became aware of the alleged incident and story this evening and are in the process of seeking more information," Golden State wrote.
"Well have no further comment at this time."
In a new YouTube vlog, Ronda Rousey said she broke her pinky knuckle in her Triple Threat match with Becky Lynch and Charlotte Flair at WrestleMania 35, and she also discussed her WWE future.
Rousey said the injury occurred when she flipped the table at WrestleMania.
She had two pins put in her hand and the cast is expected to come off in four weeks.
Following that, Rousey, the former Raw Womens Champion, said she and husband Travis Browne plan on traveling until she gets pregnant.
"As for WWE plans in the future, we want to have a baby first," Rousey said.
"I dont know what its like to have a baby.
I could look down at this beautiful child and be like 'f--- everything, I dont care about anything else other than this baby.'
And youll never see me again.
Or, I could be like my mom [AnnMaria De Mars], who trained while she was eight months pregnant and then won the US Open six weeks after giving birth.
Which was unbelievable.
I dont think Im going to try and aspire to her level.
But Im just saying, you never know, I dont want to make any promises about the future when I dont know how Im gonna feel in the future."
Rousey said she was only planning on staying with the company until November, but when the opportunity to headline WrestleMania in a women's only event became a possibility, she decided to stay.
WrestleMania was Rousey's last scheduled match.
Last week, Rousey hinted at starting a family in an Instagram post she captioned with "impregnation vacation."
Giannis Antetokounmpo never fails to disappoint with his dunks, and his latest in Game 4 of the Bucks' first-round NBA playoff matchup against the Pistons was no different.
The Bucks won 127104 for the sweep to advance to the Eastern Conference semifinals, with the Greek Freak totaling 41 points, nine rebounds and four blocks.
The Greek Freak's switch-hand finish resulted in some serious hang time that drew Michael Jordan comparisons.
Antetokounmpo completed the feat after going up with his right hand.
The score had Detroit fans and even the Pistons' Andre Drummond shook and wondering just how he did that.
Antetokounmpo finished the first half with 17 points and seven rebounds.
He ended the game with a NBA playoffs career-high 41 points and nine rebounds.
Callum Hudson-Odoi looks to be out for the rest of the seasonand possibly much longerafter appearing to rupture his Achilles tendon on Monday in Chelsea's 2-2 draw against Burnley.
While Chelsea has yet to conduct scans on the young star, the club appears to be bracing for the worst after Hudson-Odoi appeared to land awkwardly while trying to control a ball and proceeded to limp around before being replaced by Pedro.
Hudson-Odoi confirmed the severity of the injury on Twitter after the match.
Really gutted to end my season with an Ruptured Achilles, gotta work hard and try and come back stronger for next season!!!
pic.twitter.com/PXC53WszdH Callum Hudson-Odoi (@Calteck10) April 22, 2019 Chelsea assistant coach Gianfranco Zola talked about the injury postgame, saying "I think it's a serious injury.
It's his Achilles tendon.
I cannot tell you the extent of it.
I don't knowhe'll have to have an examination, but it's not looking good."
The injury concludes a frustrating year for Hudson-Odoi that saw the Chelsea academy product agitated at not getting more first-team opportunities under manager Maurizio Sarri.
Hudson-Odoi even put in a formal transfer request in January after drawing interestand a large bidfrom Bayern Munich, but Chelsea rejected the offer amid hopes that Hudson-Odoi might opt to sign a contract extension with the club.
Now with his season over and a number of months of rehab potentially in the future, Hudson-Odoi's future seems all the more uncertainespecially considering his contract ends in June 2020.
But Chelsea and its young star will hold out hope for any positive news in the coming days and a speedy recovery.
AUGUSTA, Ga. Four members of a Texas family have been charged with federal crimes in what prosecutors say was a scheme that used stolen identities to get tickets to the Masters golf tournament, then resell those tickets at a healthy profit.
Documents filed in U.S. District Court in Augusta dont say how many Masters tickets the four defendants are suspected of obtaining, or how much money they made from any resales.
Court records say that from 2013 through 2017 the family used the stolen identities in an effort to cheat the lottery system that distributes tournament tickets and to circumvent Augusta National Golf Clubs rules allowing people to apply only once to enter its ticket lottery.
Stephen Michael Freeman of Katy, Texas, was charged with conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud as well as aggravated identity theft.
Freemans parents Steven Lee Freeman and Diane Freeman of Helotes, Texas and a sister, Christine Oliverson of San Antonio, were also charged with conspiracy.
The family purchased bulk mailing lists to obtain names and addresses of people that were used to create fake accounts for Augusta Nationals online ticket lottery, according to the court documents filed by federal prosecutors.
Those accounts were submitted with email addresses controlled by Freeman and his relatives.
The family would then ask Augusta National to change the addresses associated with the bogus accounts, using false driver licenses, false utility bills and false credit card statements in the identity of the fake user accounts sent by mail, the court documents said.
That would ensure any tickets won through the lottery would be mailed to addresses where Freeman and his relatives would receive them, prosecutors said.
The family could then resell the tickets at a substantial profit, the charging document said.
Court records did not list attorneys who could speak for Freeman or his charged relatives.
The office of U.S. Attorney Bobby Christine said in a news release that the charges carry potential penalties of up to 20 years in prison, as well as substantial fines.
Whether Robert Kraft is guilty of solicitation may soon become a secondary issue in the legal controversy surrounding videos of the New England Patriots owner in the Orchids of Asia Day Spa in Jupiter, Fla. on Jan. 19 and Jan. 20.
Recent developments suggest it is only a matter of time before the videos are released through lawful or unlawful means.
If the videos go online, there is no practical way they can be permanently removed from the Internet.
Once they are up, they are there for good.
From the day Kraft was charged with two low-level misdemeanor offenses, the most damaging threat to his legacyand, by extension, of potential harm to the NFLs relationship with important constituencieshas been that the videos go viral and millions of curious onlookers watch them.
According to video narratives authored by Jupiter police officers, Kraft is shown engaged in sexual acts with women purportedly employed by the spa.
He is also shown paying them cash.
The release of the videos, particularly unedited versions, would be embarrassing to the 77-year-old billionaire and would make it more likely that NFL commissioner Roger Goodell punishes him.
Kraft and his legal team are trying to thread a needle.
While they attempt to defeat the charges and accept that such a goal could take weeks or months, they simultaneously seek to prevent disclosure of the videos.
As explained below, these strategies are not entirely congruous: The longer Kraft is willing to fight the charges, the greater the risk will be that the videos will be released through authorized or unauthorized channels.
Kraft takes on Florida law enforcement and prosecutors .
.
.
Kraft insists that police officers violated his Fourth Amendment right against unreasonable searches when they covertly recorded him in the spa.
Krafts attorneys offer a number of arguments to support this position.
For instance, they contend the search warrant was largely premised on suspicions of a human sex trafficking ring.
No such ring was found.
Krafts attorneys also depict the warrant as defective since it failed to expressly indicate when the recordings were supposed to start and stop.
Further, the attorneys insist the police officers did shoddy work that led them to hastily and crudely videotape Kraft and other unclothed men.
Those officers, Krafts lawyers maintain, did no undercover work, failed to speak with spa employees or former spa employees to assess their (erroneous) suspicion of human sex trafficking and used a fake bomb threat as a ruse for spa employees to leave the building, thereby allowing the police to install hidden cameras.
The prosecution is armed with a number of counterarguments.
For one, sneak-and-peek warrantswhich involve law enforcement creating a ruse to install camerasare generally authorized by the 2001 USA Patriot Act.
This law, which was passed in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, provides law enforcement with substantial discretion to engage in surveillance and recordings.
The fact that the Patriot Act wasnt intended for the surveillance of prostitution doesnt preclude its use in that context.
Also, affidavits indicate that law enforcement utilized human surveillance before resorting to installing hidden cameras.
Such intelligence included visual observations of men who had entered the spa, searches of dumpsters behind the spa and an interview with at least one John who had visited the spa.
The search warrant, moreover, was not entirely premised on a finding of human sex trafficking.
Other stated rationales were suspicions of widespread prostitution and money laundering.
These suspicions appear to have been confirmed at least in part.
Numerous men have been charged with solicitation and felony charges have been brought against the spa owners.
.
.
.
but the controversy extends as a result While Kraft and prosecutors argue over the legality of the recordings, the controversy remains in the court system.
An embarrassing story thus lingers in the news cycle and continues to follow Kraft.
Even if Krafts attorneys ultimately prevail in having the case dismissed, Kraft himself would not necessarily be vindicated in the court of public opinionparticularly if the videos are released.
Kraft has already apologized for partaking in the sexual incidents at the spa and his legal filings confirm that he was in the spa.
This isnt a situation where the defendant insists the prosecution has accused the wrong person.
Kraft acknowledges he is that person.
His defense is that the recordings were illegally obtained and constituted an unlawful invasion of privacy.
No matter how the case is resolved, many will opine that he is guilty of the underlying sexual acts.
Along those lines, critics would insist that the case ending reflected law enforcement errors and constitutional safeguards, not that the acts didnt occur.
Its not as if Krafts freedom is on the line.
He is accused of relatively minor offenses that, while in theory could carry a jail sentence, in reality would not.
To be sure, Kraft is angeredrightfullyby initial insinuations by law enforcement that he was somehow connected to a human sex trafficking plot.
He wasnt, and there was no such plot.
Kraft surely distrusts Florida officials and may not be willing to strike a deal with them.
But a deal would provide Kraft with closure and potentially make disclosure of the videos less likely to occur.
Kraft has already been offered a pretrial diversion arrangement where the charges would be dropped if he completed an education course, paid a small fine and performed community service.
Its possible that Krafts attorneys could successfully demand in any plea deal what he would probably value the most: a reduced chance that the videos go public.
Prosecutors could agree to not release the videos even if they are permitted by law to do so.
They could also recommend to the court that the videos be sealed.
As Kraft fights in court, the videos are limbo and could be unlawfully leaked at any time By continuing his legal fight rather than accepting a plea deal, Kraft ensures the videos remain in legal purgatorywith disclosure possible at any moment.
The videos could be disclosed through authorized or unauthorized channels.
While Kraft uses the legal process to prevent or at least slow any authorized disclosure, he has much less control over the possibility of unauthorized disclosure.
And it may already be too late for him to stop that from occurring.
As previously discussed on The MMQB, many people who work in some capacity for the town of Jupiter or the state of Florida probably have had access to the videos.
The videos are digital files, meaning they can be shared easily by email or text.
They can also be copied and stored on computers that host them.
The number of copies in existence could already be numerous.
The videos values are likely considerable, perhaps seven figures.
While watching a video of someone at a spa engaged in a sexual act is probably unappealing to most, the video would nonetheless attract watchers.
Potential viewers include those with voyeuristic interests and those who want to see Kraft humiliated and ridiculed.
Sex tapes involving famous people typically have no shortage of viewers and they offer opportunities for others to make money by selling access and ads.
A sex tape from 2006 of a then-53-year-old Hulk Hogan was watched by more than 2.5 million people and became the subject of a successful $140 million lawsuit brought by Hogan against Gawker.
A sex tape from 2009 of a then-58-year-old Gene Simmons was supposedly one that no one wanted to see yet a company sold access to it for $10.
Both videos depicted famous adults who are older than 50 engaged in sexual acts, and both videos were of interest to many people.
It appears that at least one of the Kraft videos has already leaked or is being illegally shopped by someone in their possession.
Gary Trock and Mike Walters of The Blast report that their publication has been offered a video by an unnamed party.
The Blast viewed the footage and confirmed that it is indeed of Kraft.
Trock and Walters write that in the video, the 77-year-old is already undressed and laying on the massage table with his hands placed behind his head.
The camera angle is an overhead shot, and its believed the camera was placed in the ceiling.
If an unauthorized video is released, its not clear how much reputational value Kraft would gain by having the official video suppressed on account of the Fourth Amendment.
He might defeat the criminal charges, but the videos would already be online.
Media companies demand authorized releases of the videos while Kraft seeks protective order The persistent interest of media companies in the spa videos of Kraft is also reflective of those videos high value.
A group of media companies, including the Associated Press, ESPN, the New York Times and The Boston Globe, have intervened in Krafts legal matter.
They are attempting to block Kraft from obtaining a protective order.
If granted by Judge Leonard Hanser of the Palm Beach County Court, the order would prohibit media companies from obtaining authorized copies of the videos.
The fact that media companies, including mainstream and traditional publications, want the videos highlights their appeal.
In pursuit of the protective order, Krafts attorneys reiterate arguments that the recordings violate Krafts constitutional rights.
They also contend the videos would cause Kraft severe humiliation.
Further, since many people who watch the video would draw adverse conclusions about Krafts guilt from that viewing, Krafts Sixth Amendment right to a fair trial would theoretically be jeopardized.
The media companies see it differently.
They stress that they have a right under both the First Amendment and Florida law to report on illegal prostitution and thus require access to the videos for newsgathering purposes.
Florida also has a long tradition of revealing information about criminal proceedings, including the legal precedent that once evidence is shared with the defendants, it loses its protective quality and can be released to the public.
Further, the fact that the videos might cause Kraft embarrassment is a not a legal justification, the media companies contend, for those videos to be withheld.
If the media companies prevail, and absent any court order to the contrary, Florida authorities would be able to lawfully release the videos of Kraft.
Hua Zhangs case could lead to the videos being released The lawful release appeared to be on the verge of occurring last week.
In a filing last Wednesday in the case of Hua Zhangwho faces 26 charges, including felonies, for allegedly masterminding the multi-spa prostitution ringprosecutors revealed to the judge overseeing Zhangs case, Judge Joseph Marx of the Palm Beach County Court, that they intend to release requested spa videos of Kraft and the other men.
Attorneys for Kraft immediately objected, saying that the prosecutors were attempting to conduct an end run around Judge Hasner, who hasnt yet determined if the media can access the videos.
If Judge Marx had permitted the videos release, Krafts motion for a protective order from Judge Hasner would have become moot: the videos would already be online.
Judge Marx instead issued a temporary protective order prohibiting the release of the videos.
He will hold a hearing next Monday, April 29, to assess whether to lift the order and allow the release of the videos or issue a more lasting order.
Its possible, then, that the videos could be released on April 29 or, if Judge Marx stipulates the videos be edited prior to release, not long thereafter.
If the videos are released in authorized form, they will need to comply with limitations found under Chapter 119 of Florida Statutes.
Chapter 119 is the states public records law.
Portions of videos could be deleted, blurred or partially concealed by a dot.
Still, there would likely be enough indication that Kraft is the person in those videos.
Fridays hearing in Krafts case is crucial but not necessarily determinative Before next Mondays hearing, Krafts attorneys will have an opportunity to argue before Judge Hasner for the suppression of the videos.
Judge Hasner has scheduled a hearing for this Friday at 9:30 a.m.
Competing arguments by Kraft and prosecutors are detailed above.
If granted, a motion to suppress would mean that the videos are no longer admissible evidence.
Prosecutors would then be barred from using the videos to prosecute Kraft.
Although prosecutors could still rely on any testimony of the spa employees with whom Kraft allegedly had sexual contact, its unknown if such testimony exists and, regardless, the videos would have been more powerful evidence.
If Kraft wins on the motion to suppress, there is a chance the case would be dismissed.
There are at least four caveats for Kraft, however.
First, Judge Hasner might not issue a ruling on Friday.
Judges often hear oral arguments and then take days or weeks (or months) to review those arguments, in conjunction with written filings.
While timing is of the essence to Kraft, Judge Hasner will likely not treat the case differently because of Krafts preferences.
Cases that dont end early with plea deals can take some time, particularly with judges who have busy dockets.
To that point, Judge Hasner heard oral arguments on Krafts motion for a protective order on April 12 and has not yet issued an accompanying ruling.
Second, Judge Hasner is not the only judge with decision-making authority on the videos.
As noted above, Judge Marx is overseeing the Zhang case and can determine the videos release.
Third, even if the legal process leads to Florida courts permanently sealing the videos, the risk of unauthorized disclosure would remain.
Fourth, Roger Goodell could still punish Kraft even if the case against the Patriots owner is dismissed.
Under both the leagues personal conduct policy and the leagues constitution, no crime or other legal offense is required to trigger a sanction.
Goodell can punish Kraft for any conduct detrimental to the integrity of, or public confidence in, the game of professional football.
Goodell has previously punished owners for inappropriate conduct (Jerry Richardsonworkplace misconduct in treatment of female employees) and unlawful conduct (Jim Irsaypleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge for operating a vehicle while under the influence).
While Nevada licenses brothels in limited areas, solicitation is an illegal act in 49 states and is often associated with degradation of women.
If the videos are released, Goodell could reason the leagues image is adversely impacted and thus justifies a fine or suspension.
Michael McCann is SIs legal analyst.
He is also Associate Dean of the University of New Hampshire School of Law and editor and co-author of The Oxford Handbook of American Sports Law and Court Justice: The Inside Story of My Battle Against the NCAA.
Russell Wilson put his four-year, $140 million contract extension to good use this offseason, gifting each of the Seahawks offensive lineman $12,000 in Amazon stock, according to ESPN.
"Every Sunday we go to battle together," Wilson wrote in a letter obtained by TMZ.
"You sacrifice your physical and mental well-being to protect me, which in turn allows me to provide and care for my family."
"I am gifting you and your family, $12,000 worth of Amazon stock to help you better achieve your dreams.
You have invested in my life...
This is my investment into yours."
Wilson may hope his gift inspires better results from Seattle's offensive line compared to 2018.
The four-time Pro Bowler was sacked 51 times last season, the most in his career and third-most among all quarterbacks in 2018.
Seattle returned to the playoffs in 2018 after finishing second in the NFC West at 106.
The Seahawks lost to the Cowboys in the NFC Wild Card.
Wilson threw for 3,448 yards and 35 touchdowns on the season while tossing just seven interceptions.
Nets owner Joe Tsai has been fined $35,000 for making public comments "detrimental to the NBA," following a first-round playoff loss, league owner Adam Silver announced Monday.
The NBA fined Tsai after he tweeted Sunday about Saturday's heated Game 4 loss to the 76ers.
Tsai's comments "criticized the integrity of officiating," according to the NBA.
My partners and I have spoken and the entire Nets ownership group support our GM Sean Marks for protesting the wrong calls and missed calls.
NBA rules are rules and we respect that, but our players and fans expect things to be fair.
Joe Tsai (@joetsai1999) April 22, 2019 Tsai's tweet was in reference to Nets general manager Sean Marks, who was suspended and fined for entering the referee locker room after Game 4.
The matchup featured ejections for Jared Dudley and Jimmy Butler because of a third-quarter scuffle.
An elbow from Joel Embiid in Game 2 and some trash talk has made the series a bit more interesting, and Tsai is the latest to get involved.
Philadelphia has a 3-1 lead in the best-of-seven series.
The two teams next play Tuesday.
Indians starter Mike Clevinger attended the "A Prom to Remember" event in Cleveland on April 13, joining roughly 150 children with cancer in the Cleveland area at the Ritz Carlton Hotel, according to MLB.com's Mandy Bell.
I mean I got two little girls at home, Clevinger told Bell.
So, I mean its obviously big, especially when its these kids thatI mean theres a lot of things that they miss out on.
I mean its hard to comprehend in our daily lives...
So I mean for them to have that night and if I could add any light to their lives, obviously Im going to go."
Easily the grooviest prom Ive ever been too https://t.co/2fWPkpqsCP Mike Clevinger (@Mike_Anthony13) April 14, 2019 Clevinger has been out of the Indians rotation since being placed on the Injured List on April 9 with a back injury.
He is not expected to return to the mound until mid-May.
Coincidentally, the injury is what made Clevinger's prom night possible.
Had he been healthy, he would have been with the Indians in Kansas City for a series against the Royals.
The day before the event, Bell reported, someone from a limo company messaged Clevinger about the event to see if he would go.
Usually, several Browns players attend the dance, but they were unable to make it this year.
The limo company was tasked with chauffeuring the cancer patients from local children's hospitals to the hotel.
The 28-year-old right hander posted a 138 record with a 3.02 ERA in 2018.
He struck out 207 batters in 200 innings.
Cleveland enters Monday night second in the AL Central at 129.
The MRI on Mets starter Jacob deGrom's elbow came back negative on Monday, according to Mets general manager Brodie Van Wagenen.
deGrom is on track to return from the injured list and make his next start on Friday against the Brewers.
"We got good results from [deGrom's] MRI today," Van Wagenen said.
"The MRI was good, clean, no problems whatsoever.
Jacob threw a bullpen today and he's on track to make his start when he's eligible to come off [the IL]."
deGrom was placed on the injured list on April 19 after experiencing elbow discomfort while playing catch in St. Louis on Friday.
The Mets ace is 22 in 2019 with a 3.68 ERA.
He's struck out 36 batters in 22 innings.
deGrom sprinted to the National League Cy Young in 2019 with a league-best 1.70 ERA.
deGrom isn't the only good news on the Mets' injury front.
New York third baseman Todd Frazier will reportedly return to the active roster on Monday.
The Mets enter Monday's game vs. the Phillies third in the NL East at 1110.
Red Sox righthander Nathan Eovaldi will undergo surgery Tuesday to remove two "loose bodies" in his elbow, reports The Athletics Ken Rosenthal.
Eovaldi was placed on the injured list on Saturday, retroactive to Thursday.
The 29-year-old Eovaldi has had two Tommy John operations, once as a junior in high school in 2007 and again in 2016 with the Yankees.
Last season, he underwent a similar procedure to the one he will have Tuesday, missing two months with the Rays.
Eovaldi was traded from Tampa Bay to Boston on July 25 and helped pitch the Red Sox to a World Series championship.
He posted a 1.61 ERA in 22 1/3 innings in the 2018 postseason, working both as a starter and out of the bullpen.
His most impressive postseason performance ironically was his one loss.
In Game 3, Eovaldi pitched the final six innings before the Dodgers' Max Muncy led off the 18th with a walk-off home run.
The righthander's relief outing allowed the Red Sox to rest the remaining pitchers in their bullpen, so they were available to pitch as Boston won Games 4 and 5 to take the series, four games to one.
The Red Sox signed Eovaldi to a four-year, $68 million deal in December following the team's postseason run.
Eovaldi is 0-0 with a 6.00 ERA in four starts.
In his last start, he allowed one unearned run and three hits over six innings against the Yankees.
Boston recalled left-hander Bobby Poyner from Triple-A Pawtucket to take Eovaldis place on the roster.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Three days to go 1.
Heres a fact to kick things off this week: There have been 18 trades into or up in the top 10 of NFL drafts this decade.
Nine came in the first half (201014), and two of those were for quarterbacks (Blaine Gabbert in 2010 and Robert Griffin in 12).
Nine have come in the years since (2015-present), and seven have been for quarterbacks (Jared Goff and Carson Wentz in 2016; Mitchell Trubisky and Patrick Mahomes in 17; Sam Darnold, Josh Allen and Josh Rosen in 18).
The two outliers of those nine?
The Titans going up for Jack Conklin in 2016, and the Bears moving up for Leonard Floyd a pick later.
Could this year be different?
2.
Two of the teams that Ive heard most often as candidates open to trading upCarolina (No.
16) and Houston (No.
23)wouldnt be going up for quarterbacks.
In all likelihood, itd be a move to get one of the top three tackles.
Each has been very present in that market on the scouting trail over the last three months, and the dropoff from the first cluster (Alabamas Jonah Williams, Floridas Jawaan Taylor, Washington States Andre Dillard) to the second (Alabama States Tytus Howard, Ole Miss Greg Little) leaves both teams in a bit of a no mans land, drafting too low for the former and too high for the latter.
So both could move up or, failing that, move down.
3.
We mentioned Detroit as a team that could surprise by taking a quarterback, and this was passed along to me today: GM Bob Quinn and college scouting director Lance Newmark traveled to Shreveport for the Independence Bowl in December to live scout Duke and Temple, and Daniel Jones threw for 423 yards and six touchdowns that day.
Add that to the fact that the Lions sat down with Kyler Murray at the combine, and theyve at least done their homework on the top guys.
(I still think theyd most like to trade down, but this is all interesting.)
4.
Speaking of the quarterbacks, of late, Ohio States Dwayne Haskins has been linked to more teams than he was a couple weeks ago.
Youve heard on the Giants, Redskins, and Bengals.
Id also throw the Raiders in that mix, as a possibility.
5.
For better or worse, the NFL has drama surrounding the first pick in the draftwhich is exactly what the league wants.
I know teams have been under orders in the past not to reveal their plans ahead of the broadcast, so whats long seemed like a forgone conclusion has a little spice to it now, even if its pretty silly to think that the Cardinals havent decided whether theyll take Kyler Murray or not at this point.
6.
On the Kliff Kingsbury/Murray connection, I thought what Murrays high school coach told ESPNs Josh Weinfuss was really, really interesting.
Relationships matter.
7.
We mentioned it before, but its worth reiterating: Im told the Giants, Redskins, Chargers and Dolphins all did touch base with the Cardinals on Josh Rosen, so Arizona has an idea on teams interested, if it does come to trading him.
I imagine that would have to happen ahead of the first round, since after that, Jones, Haskins and Missouris Drew Lock will be on rosters, taking potential suitors out of the mix.
8.
While were there, Ive been told the Packers affection for Missouris Drew Lock, whom they had in for a 30 visit, is real.
Does that mean theyll take him?
It does not.
But if he were to take a Rodgers-style slide to the bottom of the round, I suppose you cant rule anything out.
9.
Good to see Jaguars coach Doug Marrone quickly diffusing the Jalen Ramsey situation in the teams offseason program.
I dont think whether hes there to lift weights or not is that big a dealbeing at OTAs in May is a bit more important.
Whats really important here, for Marrone, is keeping the environment in the building where it needs to be, and avoiding the potholes Jacksonville hit last year.
(Which is why we gave the team Jonah Williams in the MMQB mock draft earlier today.)
10.
To wrap up, I touched base with now former Saint Benjamin Watson, and he indicated that he is, indeed, open to playing again.
My sense is hes looking at some opportunities for post-football life, but will certainly listen to teams looking for veteran tight end help.
And a lot of times, these sorts of things materialize post-draft, when the roster picture becomes close to complete for teams.
Question or comment?
Email us at talkback@themmqb.com.
MELBOURNE (Reuters) - Former Liverpool striker Robbie Fowler has been appointed coach of A-League club Brisbane Roar, taking his first serious management role in the Australian top flight where he enjoyed a two-year stint as a player.
Soccer Football - Champions League - Quarter Finals and Semi Finals Draw - Nyon, Switzerland - March 15, 2019 Liverpool club ambassador Robbie Fowler before the draw REUTERS/Denis Balibouse Fowler, who was briefly player-coach of Thai side Muangthong United before retiring in 2012, would take over the struggling Roar from the 2019/20 season on a two-year deal, the club said.
Im really looking forward to the challenge and am determined to bring success to a club that has such a proud history in the Hyundai A-League, Fowler said in a team release on Tuesday.
Im really keen to get started and make a difference.
My family and I have already experienced living in Queensland, so Im really happy to be returning and being part of the Brisbane Roar family.
Capped 26 times by England, Fowler skippered North Queensland Fury in 2009/10 before the Townsville-based team collapsed under debts, then transferred to A-League rivals Perth Glory the following season.
He proved a popular drawcard in Australia and was top scorer at both clubs before heading to Thailand.
The 44-year-old faces a big challenge to rebuild the once-mighty Roar, who have endured a miserable season and are ninth in the 10-team league with only four wins from 26 games.
Former boss John Aloisi resigned from the three-times A-League champions in December and caretaker Darren Davies has proved powerless to lift a team who suffered a 6-1 humiliation at home against the Newcastle Jets last weekend.
Fowler will attend the Roars season-ending game against Adelaide United at their Lang Park home on Thursday.
The Roar said they had undertaken an extensive, detailed and robust appointment process before settling on Fowler, who has coached at the Liverpool academy but boasts little senior management experience.
(Brisbane) is confident that we have appointed an outstanding person and someone who is hungry to succeed, Roar CEO David Pourre said.
Soccer Football - Champions League - Liverpool Press Conference - Estadio do Dragao, Porto, Portugal - April 16, 2019 Liverpool's James Milner during the press conference Action Images via Reuters/Andrew Boyers (Reuters) - Liverpool midfielder James Milner says he will be rooting for Manchester United for the first time in his life when they take on Manchester City in the Premier League on Wednesday.
Defending champions City are two points behind Premier League leaders Liverpool and winning their game in hand at the home of their derby rivals would allow Pep Guardiolas side to retake the lead in the title race.
Milner, who won the Premier League title with City before joining Liverpool, wants United to do bitter rivals Liverpool a favour by beating City and increasing the pressure on them in the final weeks of the season.
First time in my life, Milner told reporters when asked if he would support United over City.
But I wont be watching.
Its a bit of a waste of energy, willing the ball in the other goal.
City will be crowned champions if they win their remaining games, while Liverpool need City to drop points if they are to end their 29-year wait for an English top-flight title.
Theyre a top team, theyve done it before and are grinding it out.
All we can do is win the rest of our games and put them under pressure, Milner added.
Theres three games left after (United).
People think United is a challenge, but its not the only one.
Its an old cliche but the Premier League is tough whoever you play.
LONDON (Reuters) - Chelsea suffered a setback in their push for a Champions League spot when they were held to a 2-2 draw at home to Burnley in the Premier League on Monday and tempers flared at the end of the match when Chelsea coach Maurizio Sarri was sent to the stands.
Soccer Football - Premier League - Chelsea v Burnley - Stamford Bridge, London, Britain - April 22, 2019 Burnley's Jeff Hendrick celebrates scoring their first goal Action Images via Reuters/Andrew Boyers Jeff Hendrick gave Burnley an early lead with a crisp volley before NGolo Kante and Gonzalo Higuain put the home side 2-1 ahead by the 14th minute.
However, Ashley Barnes drew the visitors level 10 minutes later.
After Tottenham Hotspur, Manchester United and Arsenal all lost at the weekend, Chelsea had an opportunity to tighten their grip on the Premier Leagues top four places.
The draw pushed Chelsea up a place into fourth spot in the Premier League, level on points with third-placed Spurs and one point ahead of Arsenal, both of whom have a played a game less.
Burnley remained 15th are nine points clear of the relegation zone with three games left to play.
On a frustrating night for Chelsea, teenager Callum Hudson-Odoi had to be helped off the pitch shortly before halftime after suffering a serious Achilles tendon injury.
Chelseas frustration at failing to claim all three points boiled over when referee Kevin Friend sent Sarri off after the Italian coach became embroiled in a scuffle amongst players on the touchline in the dying moments.
You can understand he is frustrated about the game, said Chelsea assistant coach Gianfranco Zola, who stood in for Sarri in the post-match news conference.
Zola said Sarri had sought to get his players out of the scuffle but the referee misinterpreted it; we are very unhappy about it.
Zola added Sarri had been offended by a comment from the Burnley bench.
Chelsea defender David Luiz accused Burnley of playing anti-football by wasting time and employing negative tactics.
Burnley coach Sean Dyche bristled at the anti-football suggestion and praised his players for withstanding Chelseas pressure.
There are nights like tonight when you just have to give everything, every inch, he said.
You know, it used to be a really good thing when fans see their team give everything.
They used to love it and maybe its still got a place.
It was Burnley seeking to avoid being sucked back into the relegation fight who struck first when Hendrick volleyed home in the eighth minute after a headed clearance found him in space on the edge of the penalty area.
Chelsea hit back with two goals in two minutes.
First, winger Eden Hazard bamboozled Burnleys defence before cutting the ball back for Kante to sweep home.
Then Higuain blasted a shot in off the underside of the crossbar in the 14th minute.
Ten minutes later, Burnley were level again when Barnes evaded his marker at the back post to connect with a headed flick-on from Chris Wood.
After the end-to-end drama of the first 45 minutes, Chelsea dominated possession in the second half but failed to break down Burnleys defence.
Soccer Football - Premier League - Chelsea v Burnley - Stamford Bridge, London, Britain - April 22, 2019 Chelsea manager Maurizio Sarri with Callum Hudson-Odoi as he comes off injured Action Images via Reuters/Andrew Boyers LONDON (Reuters) - Chelsea winger Callum Hudson-Odoi suffered what appeared to be a serious Achilles tendon injury in Mondays 2-2 draw with Burnley, assistant coach Gianfranco Zola said.
Hudson-Odoi, 18, had to be helped off the pitch shortly before halftime when he was replaced by Pedro.
Its not an easy one.
I think it is a serious injury.
Its on his Achilles tendon.
I cannot tell you the full extent of it, Zola told reporters.
The Italian said he could not comment reports that Hudson-Odoi had ruptured his tendon.
I am not sure about it.
I think they will have to have an examination, but it is not looking good, Zola said.
Hudson-Odoi received his first England start last month even as he struggled to break into the Chelsea first team.
Bayern Munich said they want to sign him from Chelsea, leading to speculation he could be sold during the close season.
FILE PHOTO: German Bundesliga, official photocall VfL Wolfsburg for season 2018/19 in Wolfsburg, Germany: John Anthony Brooks ; Photo: Peter Steffen/dpa BERLIN (Reuters) - Fourth-placed Eintracht Frankfurt squandered the chance to widen the gap with their rivals in the Bundesliga after conceding a last-gasp equaliser in a 1-1 draw with VfL Wolfsburg on Monday.
Frankfurt, who host Chelsea in the Europa League semi-finals next month, thought they had scored the winner when substitute Jonathan De Guzman netted in the 79th minute after Wolfsburg twice hit the woodwork.
But John Anthony Brooks snatched a 90th minute equaliser for a deserved point for the hosts.
Frankfurt are on 53 points, two ahead of fifth-placed Borussia Moenchengladbach, with four matches left in the season.
The top four clubs qualify for next seasons Champions League group stage.
The game was briefly interrupted after only a few minutes with fans tossing Easter eggs and tennis balls onto the pitch in a usual form of protest against Monday evening matches.
The German football league in charge of the Bundesliga will scrap Monday matches, widely unpopular among fans, after the 2020/21 season.
Wolfsburg twice hit the woodwork with Admir Mehmedi and Max Arnold in the second half but it was De Guzman who found the back of the net before Brooks restored order with his last-minute equaliser, spoiling Frankfurts evening.
Soccer Football - Serie A - Napoli v Atalanta - Stadio San Paolo, Naples, Italy - April 22, 2019 Atalanta's Berat Djimsiti in action with Napoli's Arkadiusz Milik REUTERS/Ciro De Luca MADRID (Reuters) - Atalanta surged into contention for a top four finish in Serie A with a 2-1 victory at Napoli on Monday.
While second-placed Napoli have 67 points and are six clear of third-placed Inter Milan, Atalanta climbed to fifth with 56 points.
They are level on points with AC Milan in fourth and one ahead of sixth-placed AS Roma with five games to play.
Napoli will feel they should have taken at least a point, if not all three, after dominating long spells of the game.
But they came away empty handed thanks to their profligate finishing and some excellent defending by Atalanta.
Dries Mertens gave the home side the lead with his 12th goal of the season in the 28th minute.
He bundled in Kevin Malcuits cross from close range before Duvan Zapata brought Atalanta level with 20 minutes to go.
Zapata then set up Mario Pasalic for a late winner.
The home crowd called for a penalty early on as Mertens rounded the Atalanta goalkeeper.
However, upon hitting the ground he swiftly waved away any appeals, telling the referee there has been no contact and that he had lost his footing.
The second period was more open, with both teams trading chances and Zapatas close-range finish levelled things up.
From there on it was all Atalanta and they got the goal they craved when Zapata turned creator, teeing up Pasilic with a back-heel that the Croatian swept in.
Soccer Football - Championship - Stoke City v Norwich City - bet365 Stadium, Stoke-on-Trent, Britain - April 22, 2019 Norwich City's Onel Hernandez celebrates scoring their first goal Action Images/Carl Recine MADRID (Reuters) - Norwich City all but confirmed their promotion to the Premier League with a 2-2 draw at Stoke City on Monday.
The Championship leaders, who sit six points above third-placed Leeds United on 88 points, have a plus 10 goal difference on Marcelo Bielsas side with just two games remaining.
A second consecutive defeat for Leeds, who lost 2-0 to Brentford, leaves them facing the prospect of settling for a play-off place following Sheffield Uniteds 3-0 win at Hull City.
The Blades, in second place, move onto 85 points and now have a three point cushion on their Yorkshire rivals.
With the finish line in sight, Norwich stumbled to their fourth consecutive draw on Monday - stretching their unbeaten run to 12 games.
Daniel Farkes side would have secured promotion had they held onto two separate leads, with strikes by Onel Hernandez and Teemu Pukki.
However, equalisers from Ashley Williams and Tom Edwards mean they need a point from their final two games of the season, against Blackburn and Aston Villa, to be assured of a place in Englands top flight next season.
(Reuters) - Manchester Uniteds players did not respect the club or their fans during Sundays 4-0 loss at Everton in the Premier League, midfielder Paul Pogba said.
Soccer Football - Premier League - Everton v Manchester United - Goodison Park, Liverpool, Britain - April 21, 2019 Manchester United's Paul Pogba looks dejected REUTERS/Andrew Yates The result at Goodison Park left United in sixth place with four games to go.
It was their third loss in five league games and Pogba said it was a defeat they could have done without with a top four spot and Champions League qualification at stake.
The way we played and the performance of myself, of the team, of everyone is disrespectful, Pogba told Sky Sports.
We didnt respect ourselves, the club or the fans.
Its not good at all what we did.
Losing a game is something really bad that we dont want to when we are in the race for the top four and losing 4-0 as well.
Everything went wrong but the most important thing is the mentality that we put on the pitch, that has to change... What we did on the pitch is not respectful for the team mates, for the staff, for the people, for the kit man, for everyone.
United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer warned his players that they must show fight if they are to be a part of his close season rebuild and he also apologised to fans after the heaviest loss of his short tenure.
Pogba said the only way the squad could apologise to the fans was to give them a reaction on the pitch in their upcoming games.
Uniteds next game is a derby when they host title challengers Manchester City on Wednesday.
The fans want a reaction from the players and the only way to apologise to them is to give everything on the pitch, Pogba said.
Do our best, create chances, score goals, defend, work for the team.
We can even lose games, but with a good performance and pride on the pitch.
When you wear this shirt at this club... you have to work and respect the culture, the history of this club and give everything on the pitch.
Thats how we should apologise to the fans, just to give everything for us, for the club, for the shirt, for the team mates and for ourselves as well because it is us on the pitch and we cannot perform like we did.
FILE PHOTO: Spain's Fernando Verdasco reacts during his Quarter Final match at the Dubai Tennis Championships REUTERS/Ahmed Jadallah MADRID (Reuters) - Home favourite Marcel Granollers was the main casualty on the opening day of the Barcelona Open as the tournament got underway amidst murky, grey skies in Catalonia.
The Spaniard was beaten 7-5 4-6 6-4 by Chilean Nicolas Jarry, who will face second seed Alexander Zverev in the second round.
Elsewhere, Fernando Verdasco beat fellow Spaniard Feliciano Lopez 6-4 6-3 on the Rafa Nadal Court, while Argentinas Diego Schwartzman came back from a set down to see off Japans Yoshihito Nishioka 4-6 6-4 6-2.
Leonardo Mayer beat big-serving Romanian Marius Copil 6-3 6-7(3) 7-5 to set up a second round meeting with 11-times champion and top seed Rafael Nadal.
MADRID (Reuters) - Barcelona are fully focused on winning La Liga and if possible want to wrap up the title before next weeks Champions League semi-final clash with Liverpool, coach Ernesto Valverde said on Monday.
FILE PHOTO: Soccer Football - La Liga Santander - FC Barcelona v Real Sociedad - Camp Nou, Barcelona, Spain - April 20, 2019 Barcelona coach Ernesto Valverde before the match REUTERS/Albert Gea The Catalans, who are on 77 points and are nine ahead of second-placed Atletico Madrid, travel to Alaves on Tuesday.
If they beat Alaves and Atletico Madrid fail to win against fifth-placed Valencia 24 hours later, then Valverdes side will be crowned champions on Wednesday.
A lot of people ask me if we want to get La Liga boxed off and thats what anyone would want to do, Valverde told a news conference.
We want to win La Liga, whenever that may be and well see if we can get that done.
It looks easy on paper: a win here, a draw there, we win it on a certain day but we have a lot of good teams to face with a lot to play for and things arent easy.
Valverde is likely to give winger Ousmane Dembele a run out as he continues to recover from a hamstring injury suffered last month.
Hes not at 100 percent.
He will be getting his rhythm (back) little by little; he brings us a lot of speed and that will come in useful against sides who want to press high as we can use him in the spaces that leaves.
The 55-year-old was curt when asked whether Dembele would replace Philippe Coutinho in the pecking order now that the Frenchman was back from injury.
Here nobody has gone in front of anybody.
Everyone we have here is a great player and while we might have had situations where one has replaced the other one, that kind of thing happens in all clubs, he said.
Each player is looking for his place and to be in the best shape they can be.
In this case, Dembele has played, or Coutinho has played.
They can even play together.
Valverde will be without long-term absentee Rafinha for the trip to the Basque country, while Thomas Vermaelen and Samuel Umtiti remain doubts.
Alaves, who are eighth on 46 points, will be without Jonathan Calleri (suspended) and injured trio Guillermo Maripan, Takashi Inui and Jorge Burgui.
(Reuters) - Tottenham Hotspur are focused solely on Tuesdays Premier League match against Brighton & Hove Albion and not on their Champions League semi-final against Ajax Amsterdam next week, manager Mauricio Pochettino said on Monday.
FILE PHOTO: Soccer Football - Premier League - Manchester City v Tottenham Hotspur - Etihad Stadium, Manchester, Britain - April 20, 2019 Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino before the match REUTERS/Phil Noble Tottenham maintained their grip on third place despite a 1-0 defeat at Manchester City after Arsenal failed to capitalise following a 3-2 defeat by Crystal Palace.
Chelsea and Manchester United are also in the hunt and, with all four clubs separated by three points, Pochettino said their primary focus was on the battle for the top four and not on their first European Cup semi-final since 1962.
We are not thinking of Ajax, Pochettino told reporters.
We showed at Manchester City that were thinking in the today and that competition, the Premier League.
Now our energy is in Brighton.
Its so clear that we have two objectives, one is to be in the top four at the end of the season and the other is to beat Ajax.
But we need to go step-by-step, the players know it.
I think the behaviour and the mentality is perfect.
Pochettino, already missing injured striker Harry Kane, will also be without central midfielders Moussa Sissoko and Harry Winks.
Both players suffered groin injuries and are doubtful for the first leg of the semi-final at White Hart Lane next Tuesday.
Moussa Sissoko is not going to be fit, maybe for the next two weeks, Pochettino said.
We hope he can recover before but Im not so optimistic.
Harry Winks, we dont know because its a problem that is one day very good, next day not very good.
Its about assessing each day, we hope hell be available for Tuesday but were not sure.
However, Pochettino was bullish on goalkeeper Hugo Lloriss return after the Frenchman missed the league game at City with a muscle injury.
Lloris, I hope yes, we are going to assess, Pochettino added.
We have a training session and we hope its not a big issue, we hope hes going to be available.
(Reuters) - Southampton must be aggressive and clinical to beat Watford on Tuesday as they look to move further away from the Premier League relegation zone, manager Ralph Hasenhuettl said on Monday.
FILE PHOTO: Soccer Football - Europa League Quarter Final First Leg - RB Leipzig vs Olympique de Marseille - Red Bull Arena, Leipzig, Germany - April 5, 2018 RB Leipzig coach Ralph Hasenhuettl before the match REUTERS/Matthias Rietschel/File Photo Southampton are 16th in the standings with 36 points following a 3-1 loss at Newcastle United on Saturday.
The south-coast club conceded two goals in four first-half minutes and Hasenhuettl said they could not risk a repeat of that performance against Watford as they sit five points above the drop zone with four games left.
I think we have the quality to win there (at Watford) or to take a point, but we need a really clinical and perfect performance, Hasenhuettl told reporters.
The message must be that a little bit of playing football is not enough for us, so we have to be aggressive again.
We have to work harder than we did on Saturday in the first half because otherwise against Watford, a very strong team, it is again a big problem to take something.
Hasenhuettl will be without injured defender Jannik Vestergaard for the trip to Watford and he will make a late call on Yan Valery who is recovering from illness.
It will be difficult I think for Jannik, Hasenhuettl said.
He had big pains in the training session on Friday and stopped in the training session.
With Yan he had a high temperature in the night so we drove him home and we will have a look.
There is not a lot of time between the games so we will have a look.
Hasenhuettl could change Southamptons formation, especially in defence where he has alternated between a back three and a back four in recent games.
As always I think we know that we are flexible when changing shapes, he added.
We showed at Newcastle again that we can immediately change the shape and get more comfortable.
FILE PHOTO: Soccer Football - Premier League - Manchester City v Tottenham Hotspur - Etihad Stadium, Manchester, Britain - April 20, 2019 Manchester City's Phil Foden in action with Tottenham's Juan Foyth Action Images via Reuters/Jason Cairnduff (Reuters) - Manchester City must be considered one of the best teams ever if they successfully defend their Premier League title this season, according to their young midfielder Phil Foden.
City are aiming to become the first team in a decade to win the English top-flight title two years in a row.
With 86 points from 34 games, they are two behind Liverpool who have played a game more.
Foden, who scored in Saturdays 1-0 win over Tottenham Hotspur, said this campaign was a much better challenge compared to last season when they won the title by a massive 19 points.
If we can do this, then people are going to have to start thinking that were one of the best teams ever, Foden told reporters.
I couldnt be in a better team.
Every player wants to fight for the team and were unstoppable with that attitude.
When we won the league last time we were miles in front but this is better because weve actually had a challenge, someone fighting with us.
City face arch-rivals Manchester United, who are unbeaten at home in their last 14 league matches, at Old Trafford on Wednesday.
Its a very difficult game to go to United and play well, but I know were capable of doing it, Foden said.
And if we win that one were a step closer.
Its all down to us, win all our games (and) we win the league.
However, the 18-year-old, who has started only two league games this season, may have to settle for a place on the bench with the experienced David Silva in line to return.
Obviously, any game Im going to play Im going to be excited, Foden added.
Im just waiting for my opportunities.
MANCHESTER, England (Reuters) - The following are talking points from the weekends Premier League action.
Soccer Football - Premier League - Everton v Manchester United - Goodison Park, Liverpool, Britain - April 21, 2019 Everton's Richarlison scores their first goal Action Images via Reuters/Jason Cairnduff UNITED PAYING PRICE FOR FITNESS FAILINGS Manchester Uniteds 4-0 loss at Everton on Sunday drew stinging criticism from pundits, including former captain Gary Neville, with many questioning the attitude of the players.
While there is no doubt the culture at the club needs deeper changes than Ole Gunnar Solskjaer putting a smile on peoples faces and indeed the squad needs injecting with fresh talent, the short-term problem is more basic.
When Solskjaer and his assistant Mick Phelan took over, they asked the players to up their physical work rate and that was immediately noticeable during the initial good run of form.
The problem is that without a high base level of fitness, that sort of sudden increase is almost impossible to maintain.
If there was any doubt that a lack of top-level fitness is at the core of the current slump in form, one statistic from Sundays shambles at Goodison Park stands out Everton ran over eight kilometres more than United.
Marco Silvas side looked sharper, quicker and more determined than a rather leggy United.
The only way to sort out that problem is a full and intense pre-season, to build the levels of stamina and fitness that are needed to compete at the highest level.
The temptation after the humiliation at Everton must be to bring in some of the clubs talented young players, such as midfielder James Garner, Tahith Chong and Angel Gomes.
The problem again is the short-term the next game is against Manchester City in Wednesdays derby match which Solskjaers side must win to keep alive hopes of qualifying for the Champions League.
A match against Pep Guardiolas City is hardly the occasion for blooding young players and the risk is high of damaging their confidence and self-belief.
So United must shuffle the existing pack and a wise move would be to bring in a couple of the more experienced young players with Andreas Pereira and Scott McTominay able to offer energy in midfield.
And it wouldnt be a surprise to see a young forward, such as highly-rated 17-year-old Mason Greenwood, on the bench.
A VERY MODERN PENALTY When Mohamed Salah went down inside the area to earn an 81st-minute penalty, which James Milner converted to give Liverpool a 2-0 win at Cardiff, there was debate over whether a real foul had taken place.
It was a typical of problem of modern game.
Did Cardiffs Sean Morrison have hands on Salah?
Yes.
Was the Egyptian pushed to the floor?
No.
Did he throw himself to the floor?
Yes.
Was it a penalty?
Probably, yes.
A very modern penalty.
FODEN STILL NEEDS TIME There was much excitement generated by Phil Fodens match- winning goal for Manchester City against Spurs on Saturday.
It was only Fodens second start in the Premier League but his performance indicated that he fully deserved the faith shown in him by Pep Guardiola, entrusting him a key midfield role in a vital game.
But it is worth remembering that while he has been talked about as a talent for the past couple of years, Foden will only turn 19 in May.
He is well on track to become a major part of the City midfield in the coming years but Guardiola has been wise to introduce him gradually and it would be a surprise if he were to change that approach radically.
Foden still has room for development, particularly physically, and it is a refreshing change to see a player and a club willing to commit to patient growth.
EVERTON LOOK LIKE BEST OF THE REST Evertons goal is to break into the top six, or at least create a big seven and after poor spells of form this season, they are now looking like a team that could achieve that target.
The win over United came after victories over Arsenal and Chelsea in their last two games at Goodison results which show that Marco Silvas side are not too far away from realising that ambition.
Slideshow (4 Images) SORT THOSE AWAY SHIRTS OUT!
One of Tottenhams greatest nights in European football featured them playing in green.
Liverpools race to the title has seen them wearing purple and Manchester United lost 4-0 to Everton in pink.
Any chance the kit manufacturers will bring back some sense to away jerseys?
(Reuters) - Brighton & Hove Albion players cannot be accused of not caring about retaining their Premier League status as they look to avoid the drop with four games left in the season, manager Chris Hughton said on Monday.
FILE PHOTO: Soccer Football - Premier League - Wolverhampton Wanderers v Brighton & Hove Albion - Molineux Stadium, Wolverhampton, Britain - April 20, 2019 Brighton manager Chris Hughton during the match Action Images via Reuters/Craig Brough The south-coast club sit three points above the relegation zone but have endured a severe dip in form in 2019, winning only two of their last 14 league games to fall from 13th to 17th in the standings.
Brighton have also failed to score in their last five league matches, including the 0-0 draw at Wolverhampton Wanderers on Saturday.
I dont think anybody could accuse a group of players at Wolves on Saturday of it not meaning enough or downing tools, Hughton told reporters ahead of Tuesdays trip to Tottenham Hotspur.
Absolutely thats not the case.
Were a team of our level playing in the Premier League and, up until probably the last month or so, weve been in a decent enough position in the league.
Probably our poorest period came at the worst time, but that happens when youre playing in a division as difficult as this one and when you are the level of club that we are.
We have to find formulas and pull out results to get the points that we need.
Hughton, who spent over two decades as a player at Tottenham, said he was looking forward to playing at the new White Hart Lane stadium which opened this month.
I was there all in all for 27 years and I have lots of memories as a player and as a coach, Hughton said.
Im looking forward to going there.
How much Ill enjoy it will be down to the performance the team put in but Im hoping I can enjoy it.
Three points ahead of 18th-placed Cardiff City, Brighton end the season with games against Newcastle United on Saturday, Arsenal and Manchester City.
MILAN (Reuters) - Five talking-points from the Serie A weekend where Juventus beat Fiorentina 2-1 to wrap up an eighth successive Serie A title with five games to spare.
FILE PHOTO: Soccer Football - Serie A - Juventus v Fiorentina - Allianz Stadium, Turin, Italy - April 20, 2019 Juventus' Cristiano Ronaldo celebrates winning the league after the match REUTERS/Massimo Pinca JUVENTUS MAKE NINTH SUCCESSIVE TITLE THEIR PRIORITY Juventus coach Massimiliano Allegri said that a ninth successive Serie A title would be their priority next season.
The scudetto will be the target.
We will be up against the two Milan teams who are improving and Napoli area also growing, he said.
Roma and Lazio could strengthen over the summer.
There is not going to be a revolution.
We have to improve the quality of our football and learn how to deal with unexpected events better, because those moments can change a tournament.
We will meet with the club and see what could have been done better.
I might try a few players in different roles, which I already did recently using Emre Can as a third centre-back, or Federico Bernardeschi and Juan Cuadrado in a three-man midfield.
I am curious to see how they do.
SAMPDORIA SPORTING DIRECTOR QUITS AFTER ROW WITH PRESIDENT Sampdorias sporting director Walter Sabatini has resigned amid reports of a furious row with club president Massimo Ferrero following the 3-0 defeat to Bologna.
Italian media, including Gazzetta dello Sport and the news agency ANSA, said the two had to be pulled apart after an argument broke out in the dressing room.
I confirm my resignation with great sorrow and regret, Sabatini told Sky Sport Italia.
There was a row between myself and the president after the game and when something like that happens, its right that the employee resigns.
There will be no turning-back but it was a difficult decision because I want the best for this team.
RANIERI TALKS OF PSYCHOLOGICAL PRESSURE IN SERIE A AS Roma coach Claudio Ranieri, back in Serie A after a seven-year absence, has been struck by the amount of pressure on the coaches and players.
I think the psychological pressure inhibits our players and coaches, he said after his side held Inter Milan to a 1-1 draw at San Siro, leaving them one point and one place outside the top four.
Theres a lot less tactics abroad, but when they step out onto the pitch they run harder.
Thats their secret: constantly training and playing at full pelt.
They have a lot less psychological stress in the Premier League; you play the game and everything else doesnt weigh on you as much, said Ranieri who led Leicester City to their title in 2016 I havent changed the training methods from England to Italy, its the pressure.
Everything weighs on you more here.
Ranieri was fired by Fulham in February and hired by Roma the following month for the rest of the season.
LAZIOS INZAGHI BAFFLED BY TEAMS NAIVETY Lazio coach Simone Inzaghi blamed his players naivety for a shock 2-1 home defeat by bottom-of-the-table Chievo which could wreck their chances of finishing in the top four and qualifying for the Champions League next season.
Lazio had playmaker Sergej Milinkovic-Savic sent off for retaliation in the 34th minute and Luis Alberto dismissed for dissent after the final whistle.
Milinkovic made a huge, naive mistake that altered the game, said Inzaghi.
That was a massive error and we all paid dearly for it.
Our Champions League hopes are not over but this is a huge setback that we didnt expect.
Slideshow (5 Images) EMPOLI AND SPAL MILESTONES Andrea Petagna, 23, set a new scoring record for SPAL in a single Serie A campaign when his two goals in the 4-2 win at Empoli took his tally to 14.
Meanwhile, Francesco Caputos opening goal for Empoli meant he became only the second player to score 15 or more goals for the Tuscan side in a single top flight campaign.
SPAL virtually ensured their survival as the win lifted them to 13th in the table with 38 points, nine clear of the danger zone.
Empoli are stuck in the bottom three, four points adrift of Udinese who are the team immediately above them.
MADRID (Reuters) - Real Madrid coach Zinedine Zidane is bemused by his teams fans attitude towards Gareth Bale after they booed the Welsh forward during Saturdays 3-0 La Liga victory over Athletic Bilbao.
FILE PHOTO: Soccer Football - La Liga Santander - Real Madrid v Girona - Santiago Bernabeu, Madrid, Spain - February 17, 2019 Real Madrid's Gareth Bale reacts REUTERS/Susana Vera/File Photo When quizzed on why a player who has won four Champions Leagues in five seasons in Madrid including scoring decisive goals in two of the finals is given such a hostile reception by fans Zidane said; I dont know.
Honestly, I dont understand it.
Bale came on as a substitute after being left out from the start for the second consecutive game by Zidane and irked the Bernabeu faithful by missing a one-on-one chance.
The reaction was in stark contrast to the one that greeted Isco, who came on to the pitch at the same time as Bale to much delight from the stands.
For his part, Bale shrugged off missing the presentable opportunity by unselfishly teeing up Karim Benzema for his hat-trick but that did not saved him from a mauling by local media on Monday.
The intention is to sell him, but theres no offers forthcoming, read the front page of Marca, accompanied by a picture of the 29-year-old Bale looking sullen.
Theyre now open to the idea of loaning him out, the paper continued.
The same newspaper reported recently that Chelseas Belgian forward Eden Hazard will be signed to take Bales place in the squad.
A scathing opinion piece in the paper went further.
Madrid, or rather their president, have been procrastinating with Bale.
He finished last season as a substitute for not playing well enough and it will happen again this season, it said, omitting to mention Bales two goals, including a stunning overhead kick, in last years Champions League final with the game finely poised.
He keeps on saying good morning rather than buenos dias when he arrives at the training ground; thats if he even says anything, Marca said.
The thing is that Bales lack of sporting value is also now on a par with his lack of economic value.
Hes a very expensive player and given the way football is, theres many players who are a level below salary wise who contribute a lot more.
In 2016 Bale was given a new deal through to 2022 that made him the third-best paid player in world football, but injuries he has missed 86 games since joining the club - and a perceived failure to assimilate with Spanish culture have drawn criticism.
The club arent too optimistic about being able to sell him so are willing to listen to a loan offer, Marca said.
They want to rid themselves of Bales salary, or at least a part of it and add an option to buy like they did with James Rodriguez to Bayern.
MUMBAI (Reuters) - Kuldeep Yadav is expected to lead Indias slow-bowling attack in the World Cup but his poor form in the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) could become a headache for Virat Kohlis men with just over a month left before the 50-over tournament.
FILE PHOTO: Cricket - India Nets - Emerald Headingley, Headingley, Britain - July 16, 2018 India's Kuldeep Yadav during nets Action Images via Reuters/Ed Sykes/File Photo The left-arm wristspinner sits at seventh in the bowlers rankings in one-day internationals, one spot ahead of spin-bowling colleague Yuzvendra Chahal.
The duo have emerged as Indias frontline spinners and named in the 15-man World Cup squad alongside left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja.
The wily 24-year-old has 87 wickets from 44 ODIs at an enviable average of less than 22.
He took 12 wickets in the 2017 edition of the IPL and five more last year but has endured nightmare this season.
Kuldeep has taken four wickets in nine matches at an economy rate of 8.66 while bowling 33 overs for the Kolkata Knight Riders, who have lost five matches on the trot and are placed sixth in the eight-team league.
He was dropped for Sundays outing against Sunrisers Hyderbad after the mauling he received against Royal Challengers Bangalore on Friday during which he took 1-59 in his four overs.
Definitely a form issue, he didnt stand up for us in the previous game.
Thats why we had to give him a break and get him back fresh, KKR captain Dinesh Karthik said after his teams loss on Sunday.
Kuldeeps not been bowling as well as he would have liked, as we would have liked as well.
Thats why we gave him a break, thats the only reason that we havent played him this game.
Despite the difference in formats, the IPL is the only competitive cricket left before the World Cup-bound Indians leave for England.
Kuldeep has always looked to be attacking, tempting batsmen with his flighted deliveries and in the process conceding some extra runs, but the assault by England all-rounder Moeen Ali on Friday left him broken.
The left-handed Moeen smashed Kuldeep for three sixes and two fours in a 27-run over before falling on the last delivery, leaving the bowler teary-eyed and dejected on the field.
Bangalore and India captain Kohli was at the other end witnessing Kuldeeps misery and would hope his ace spinner will regain both his guile and confidence before India begin their quest for their third World Cup title with a match against South Africa on June 5.
Soccer Football - Premier League - Everton v Manchester United - Goodison Park, Liverpool, Britain - April 21, 2019 Everton's Dominic Calvert-Lewin in action with Manchester United's Ashley Young Action Images via Reuters/Jason Cairnduff (Reuters) - Manchester Uniteds players are well aware of the importance of Wednesdays Premier League clash against champions Manchester City and need no extra motivation after a 4-0 hammering at Everton, defender Ashley Young said.
Sixth-placed Uniteds chances of finishing in the top four were dealt a blow at Goodison Park and the nature of Sundays defeat prompted manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer to issue an apology to fans ahead of the clash with their city rivals.
We know how important that (derby) is going to be.
If you cant get yourselves up for the Manchester derby, theres something wrong, Young told the clubs website.
Ive got confidence that were going to be ready for Wednesday... weve got to dust ourselves down fairly quickly and go again this week... weve got four games left, weve got four wins to get.
Its going to be tough but Im sure we can do it.
United, who have 64 points from 34 games and sit two points adrift of Arsenal in fourth, face Chelsea, Huddersfield Town and Cardiff City in their final three matches of the season.
MUMBAI (Reuters) - Afghanistan named fast bowler Hamid Hassan, who last played for the side in July 2016, in their 15-man squad for the Cricket World Cup on Monday.
FILE PHOTO - Afghanistan's bowler Hamid Hassan is tossed the ball by team mate Najibullah Zadran during their Cricket World Cup match against Australia in Perth, March 4, 2015.
REUTERS/David Gray Hassan, 31, has played 32 one-day internationals for the war-torn nation and was also part of Afghanistans maiden appearance at the 50-over World Cup in Australia and New Zealand four years back.
Luckily for us, the comeback of senior fast bowler Hamid Hassan is a good news, Afghanistan chief selector Dawlat Ahmadzai said in a statement.
However, we will take into account his form and fitness during upcoming practice matches.
Earlier this month, Afghanistan replaced long-serving ODI captain Asghar Afghan with Gulbadin Naib as part of wholesale changes to the teams leadership structure across formats.
While several senior players questioned the timing of the leadership changes before the May 30-July 14 World Cup, Afghan kept his place in the squad.
The spinners are the biggest strength of Afghanistan, touted as the dark horse, and they named three specialist world class slow bowlers in Rashid Khan, Mohammad Nabi and Mujeeb Ur Rahman.
Rashid, 20, is the top-ranked bowler in the shortest Twenty20 format and third in the list of bowlers for the 50-over format.
It has been a six-month preparation process for the ICC Cricket World Cup, Ahmadzai said.
The mission is to play inspirational cricket in the tournament; I know there are strong teams but we will do our level best to achieve our goals.
As chief selector, it is my duty to select a competitive team.
However, there were some challenges that we needed to handle.
We selected the best squad considering factors such as experience, fitness, team balance, current form and conditions.
We hope to play great cricket without any fear and with a fighting spirit in the tournament.
Wicketkeeper-batsman Ikram Ali Khil and the pace duo of Karim Janat and Sayed Shirzad were named reserve players for the team, who begin their campaign against Australia on June 1.
Squad: Gulbadin Naib (captain), Mohammad Shahzad (wicketkeeper), Noor Ali Zadran, Hazratullah Zazai, Rahmat Shah, Asghar Afghan, Hashmatullah Shahidi, Najibullah Zadran, Samiullah Shinwari, Mohammad Nabi, Rashid Khan, Dawlat Zadran, Aftab Alam, Hamid Hassan, Mujeeb Ur Rahman.
Rishabh Pant had a point to prove after being left out of the India World Cup 2019 team and the wicketkeeper-batsman sent a timely reminder to the selectors of what they will be missing in England and Wales with a match-winning knock in the RR vs DC IPL 2019 match at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium in Jaipur on Monday night.
Following his heroics with the bat that took Delhi Capitals to the top of the IPL 2019 Points Table, Rishabh Pant spoke about the World Cup 2019 snub and how it has been playing on his mind.
"I am feeling lovely.
To make your team win in an important match is a good feeling.
I won't lie, the selection thought was running in my mind," Rishabh Pant said at the post-match presentation ceremony.
"I focussed on my process and it worked for me."
Rishabh Pant's blistering 78 off just 36 balls not only helped Delhi Capitals cruise to a six-wicket win but also saw them leapfrog Chennai Super Kings (CSK) into top spot on the table, albeit that MS Dhoni's team has a game in hand.
"The wicket was playing good, and I just took advantage of that, I guess.
Most important thing for our team is that everyone knows our role, and the support staff tells us, 'this is your role, and this is what is going to happen to you'," added the left-hander.
Rishabh Pant, who was left out of India's squad at the expense of Dinesh Karthik, smashed six fours and four sixes during his stay in the middle.
DC skipper Shreyas Iyer was happy with the way the pitch played, and so was his counterpart Steve Smith.
"When we play away from home, the wickets are so good.
We enjoy playing on the rise, and the wickets are perfectly made for them," Iyer said.
"It was important to get a good start in the Powerplay, and Shikhar has been doing that well.
The way we've been playing away games and coming back to our home games, we are unaware of how our pitch plays itself."
Delhi Capitals fought back after Rajasthan looked set to cross 200 at one stage.
"We knew they were going to go all out, especially the way Ajinkya was batting.
This is a big ground, and the pitch was a belter.
The way they started, we were expecting 200, but the bowlers did well to restrict them to 190," Iyer said.
The win lifted Delhi to the top of the table with seven victories and four defeats from 11 outings.
(With PTI Inputs)
NBA head coach Luke Walton is being sued by a woman who alleges he forced himself on her at a Santa Monica, California hotel, according to US media reports on Monday.
Celebrity news outlet TMZ reported Luke Walton, former coach of the LA Lakers , had invited the woman, a sports reporter, to meet him at his hotel to discuss a book she was writing.
Citing court documents, it said the woman alleged Luke Walton, with whom she had a previous business relationship, convinced her to go to his room and forced himself on her.
There, according to the lawsuit, he allegedly pinned her to the bed, kissed and groped her while she resisted, TMZ said.
It added the lawsuit says he eventually stopped and let her go but, as she walked away, grabbed her from behind and pulled her close -- before eventually allowing her to leave.
Now coach of the Sacramento Kings, Luke Walton was let go by the LA Lakers last week after coaching them for several seasons.
The LA Lakers issued a statement on Monday night saying they had no previous knowledge of the allegations.
"This alleged incident took place before Luke Walton was the Head Coach of the Los Angeles Lakers," a team spokesman said.
"At no time before or during his employment here was this allegation reported to the Lakers.
If it had been, we would have immediately commenced an investigation and notified the NBA."
James Milner has said he will become a Manchester United fan for the first time in the hope they can aid Liverpool's bid to win the Premier League title.
The versatile veteran has played for three of Manchester United's fiercest rivals -- Leeds, Manchester City and Liverpool -- in the course of a 17-year career and more than 600 senior matches.
But the 33-year-old former England international would be delighted if Manchester United did Liverpool a favour in the Manchester derby at Old Trafford .
Wednesday's match is Manchester City's game in hand over leaders Liverpool and victory would see the reigning champions go one point clear at the summit with three matches remaining.
"First time in my life," Milner said when asked about his support for United this week.
"But I won't be watching.
It's a bit of a waste of energy, willing the ball in the other goal."
Liverpool have not won the domestic title in the Premier League era and were last crowned champions of England when they lifted the old First Division trophy back in 1990.
But they maintained their effort to end that barren run with a 2-0 win away to Cardiff on Sunday secured by Milner's late penalty -- his seventh goal this season.
'Not easy' Liverpool complete their league campaign with home games against Huddersfield, who have already been relegated, and Wolves either side of a trip to a Newcastle team managed by former Reds boss Rafael Benitez.
City, meanwhile have away game against United, Burnley and Brighton as well as a match at home to Leicester.
"There's three games left after that (United)," said Milner of City's finish to the league season.
"People think United is a challenge, but it's not the only one.
"It's an old cliche, but the Premier League is tough -- whoever you play, teams battling at the bottom.
"Go back to QPR (when Milner won the title at Man City on the final day) and it's not easy when you're playing to win a league title."
Liverpool already have 88 points yet their final tally might still not be enough to bring the Premier League trophy to Anfield.
"We just need to win the rest of our games," said Milner.
"If we do that and it's not good enough then you have to hold your hands up and say 'well done City'.
"They are a top team, they have done it before and are grinding it out.
"It's frustrating to think we've had one defeat all year and it might not be enough.
"But all we can do is win the rest of our games and put them under pressure."
Chelsea accused Burnley of time-wasting and playing "anti-football" after Blues boss Maurizio Sarri was sent off before a touchline skirmish marred their frustrating 2-2 draw on Monday .
Sarri's side fell behind to Jeff Hendrick's fine finish before N'Golo Kante equalised moments later.
In a frantic opening 24 minutes at Stamford Bridge, Gonzalo Higuain put Chelsea ahead, only for Burnley's Ashley Barnes to punish more dismal defending from the Blues.
Without a win in their last two league games, Chelsea will take only slender comfort from climbing one point above fifth-placed Arsenal into fourth place, level on points with third placed Tottenham .
Chelsea would have gone third with a victory, but instead they have now played a game more than top four rivals Tottenham, Arsenal and Manchester United, who are three points behind in sixth.
It was a missed opportunity after defeats for Tottenham, Arsenal and United at the weekend and Chelsea were booed off at full-time.
In a fitting coda to a damaging evening, Sarri was sent to the stands for protesting in the final seconds before several members of the Blues bench were involved in a tetchy touchline clash with their Burnley counterparts.
Sarri's assistant Gianfranco Zola said his boss was so "emotional" after the game that he couldn't fulfil his media duties.
"He was very upset because he has heard not good words towards him from the Burnley bench.
The only reason he walked over there was to get our players to go into position, he was trying to help the ref," Zola said.
'Too much time wasting' Zola took a swipe at Burnley's perceived gamesmanship, which included Clarets keeper Tom Heaton being booked in the first half for time-wasting.
"We are unhappy.
There was too much time wasting.
Five minutes injury time wasn't enough to compensate.
We couldn't build important rhythm," Zola moaned.
"We expected it to be a tough game.
We didn't expect so much time wasting.
We expected (referee) Kevin Friend to give more extra time.
That's why we're very unhappy."
Chelsea defender David Luiz went even further in his criticism of Burnley.
"It's anti-football.
Wasting time all the time, especially when you have the ball.
Their players went to the floor and stopped the game," he said.
Now Arsenal can replace Chelsea in fourth if they avoid defeat at Wolves on Wednesday.
"We need to improve but we're in a good way.
We care, as we showed today," Zola said.
Adding to Sarri's problems, he was hit by first half injuries to France midfielder Kante and England winger Callum Hudson-Odoi.
"It doesn't look very good unfortunately," Zola said of Hudson-Odoi.
"It's a problem with his Achilles tendon."
Brushing off the bench-clearing clash, Burnley boss Sean Dyche said: "By the time I turned round there was something going off in the tunnel.
"I don't know what you can call it now.
Handbags?
Manbags?
Bumbags?"
Chelsea were stunned in the eighth minute when Hendrick's rocket put Burnley ahead.
It was a poor goal for Chelsea to concede as Cesar Azpilicueta could only head a Burnley corner to the edge of the area, where Hendrick was left unmarked to volley a superb dipping strike past Kepa Arrizabalaga.
Slow to react Eden Hazard's majestic assist helped Chelsea draw level four minutes later, underlining why the club are so keen to keep their talisman out of Real Madrid's clutches.
Cutting in from the left, Hazard twisted and turned so rapidly that Burnley defender Matt Lowton fell flat on his backside as the Belgian picked out Kante for a powerful shot that flashed past Heaton from 10 yards out.
Pushing forward with pace and precision, Chelsea went in front two minutes later when Higuain turned smartly to pick out Azpilicueta.
The Chelsea defender executed a deft back-heel to Higuain, who continued his run and crashed a brilliant finish into the roof of the net from an acute angle.
But Burnley punished more poor defending to equalise in the 24th minute.
With Chelsea slow to react to a Burnley free-kick, Ben Mee's header was glanced on by Chris Wood and the unmarked Barnes apply the finishing touch with a close-range volley.
Rajasthan Royals did not know what to bowl, where to bowl at Rishabh Pant, whose blistering 78 gave Delhi Capitals a six-wicket win and pole position in the Indian Premier League 2019 in Jaipur on Monday.
While striking six fours and four sixes during his 36-ball furious gallop, Pant showed why his World Cup exclusion became a subject of intense debate.
Shikhar Dhawan got Delhi Capitals off to a rollicking start with a barrage of fours and sixes, adding 72 runs for the opening wicket with Prithvi Shaw in only 7.3 overs.
But it was Pant, who played the most influential role in DC's win, finishing it off with a six.
After a quiet first over, Dhawan cut loose and hammered Dhawal Kulkarni for a six over deep square and leg and a four.
Having removed Kulkarni from the attack, Dhawan went down on his knee and whacked Shreyas Gopal over fine-leg for another maximum, and then hit two successive fours.
Kulkarni was brought back and the senior India opener responded with two more boundaries.
Shaw had luck on his side as Ashton Turner dropped him on 10, and the young batsman capitalised on that by hitting a few boundaries.
After pulling Gopal for a four, Dhawan was stumped while going down the wicket, and DC skipper Shreyas Iyer fell to a horrendous shot.
But Shaw and Pant added runs in double quick time to help Delhi Capitals cross the line.
While Shaw was contend to play second fiddle when Dhawan attacked, he opened up in the company of Pant, who found the fence regularly.
It was a mature knock by Pant, who reached his half-century in 26 balls.
Earlier, blending panache with power, Ajinkya Rahane roared back to form with a scintillating century and propelled Rajasthan Royals to 191 for six.
Rahane remained not out on 105 off 63 balls, decorating his knock with three sixes and 11 fours, while Steve Smith contributed 50 off 32 deliveries.
Asked to bat after Iyer called correctly at the toss, Rahane spearheaded Rajasthan Royals' innings after getting a life on 16, the culprit being Ishant Sharma, who dropped a sitter at short fine-leg.
The drop hurt the visitors, but Delhi did well to prevent RR from going past 200.
Entering the game with over 650 runs against Delhi in the league, Rahane chose his favourite opponents to find form, and when he walked back to the dressing room, he had over 750 to his name.
To start with, Rahane drove Ishant through a crowded off-side field for a boundary, a shot that had his characteristic elegance written all over it.
Stripped of captaincy last week following a string of poor results, the 30-year-old went into attack mode and smashed Axar Patel for a six and a four at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium, which had a dash of pink.
Seeing the flight early, Rahane danced down the crowd to hoist's Axar ball over him and into the sightscreen.
Unfazed by the sight of pacer Kagiso Rabada steaming in, he smoked the South African's short of a length delivery down the ground for another maximum.
Rahane soon brought up his second IPL hundred, the first coming seven years ago.
He raised his bat to acknowledge the applause from the crowd and his dugout that was as relieved as the batsman himself.
Meanwhile, Smith, who replaced Rahane as captain hours before the start of their last match against Mumbai Indians, struck medium pacer Sherfane Rutherford for three consecutive boundaries to score his second successive half-century of the season.
And even as Smith and Ben Stokes gout out in quick succession, Rahane was going strong, swiftly hitting Morris for a boundary over mid-off.
At the other end, Ashton Turner fell for a third golden duck.
Unheralded half miler Gomathi Marimuthu and shot putter Tejinderpal Singh Toor clinched a gold each to share the limelight as India bagged five medals on the second day of the Asian Athletics Championships in Doha Monday.
The 30-year-old Gomathi clocked a personal best time of 2 minute 02.70 seconds in the women's 800m race to open India's gold account.
National record holder and pre-competition favourite Toor's first round throw of 20.22m was enough to fetch him a gold in the men's shot put final at the Khalifa Stadium.
The 24-year-old Toor, who has a personal best of 20.75m, had entered into the championships as the season leader among the Asians and he lived up to the top billings.
Shivpal Singh then added a silver in men's javelin throw by sending the spear to a distance of 86.23m, his personal best.
In the process, the 23-year-old Shivpal also booked a berth for the World Championships to be held at the same venue in September-October as he crossed the qualifying mark of 83m.
Jabir Madari Palliyalil and Saritaben Gayakwad bagged a bronze each in men's and women's 400m hurdles respectively to swell the Indian medal tally.
With the five medals on Monday, India's medal tally stood at 2 gold, 3 silver and 5 bronze.
India had won 2 silver and 3 bronze on the first day on Sunday.
Sprinter Dutee Chand also shared some of the limelight as she smashed her own national record in 100m dash for the second time in two days.
The first Indian medal of the second day came from 24-year-old Gayakwad who clocked 57.22 seconds to finish third in women's 400m hurdles, behind Vietnam's Quach The Lan (56.10) and Bahrain's Aminat Yusuf Jamal (56.39).
His male counterpart Jabir then added a bronze by running the third fastest men's 400m hurdles by an Indian as he clocked a personal best of 49.13 seconds.
In the process, the 22-year-old Jabir joined national record holder Dharun Ayyasamy as the second Indian to qualify for the World Championships 400m hurdles event to be held at the same venue in September-October.
The World Championships qualifying mark is 49.30 seconds.
Dharun, who set a new national record of 48.80 during the Federation Cup last month, missed this Asian Championships due to injury.
Pre-race favourite Abderrehman Samba of Qatar won gold with a world leading time of 47.51 seconds.
In the women's 100m dash, Dutee bettered her own national record of 11.28 seconds set on Sunday during the heats by clocking 11.26 seconds while winning her semifinal race on Monday.
She is, however, yet to touch the World Championships qualification mark of 11.24.
However in the men's 400m, India suffered setbacks as defending champion Muhammed Anas and last edition silver winner Arokia Rajiv failed to win a medal.
Rajiv finished fourth with a personal best time of 45.37 seconds while Anas, who has been struggling after a leg injury in an accident last year, ended at eighth with a time of 46.10 seconds.
In men's 800m final, Muhammed Afsal finished seventh with a time of 1:54.68 while Asian Games silver medallist Jinson Johnson was not able to complete the race.
Ajinkya Rahane rose up against the odds to notch up his second Indian Premier League (IPL) century, maiden in the 12th edition of the lucrative tournament.
The former Rajasthan Royals skipper reached the milestone in 58 balls and a match after handing over the reins to Steve Smith.
Rahane reached the three-figure mark in the IPL after seven years banking on 11 boundaries and three hits over the fence which also ensured Rajasthan Royals post a challenging total against the visiting Delhi Capitals.
Rahane remained unbeaten on 105, registering his best-ever IPL score.
He was the sixth to score a century in the IPL 2019 after David Warner, Jonny Bairstow, KL Rahul, Virat Kohli and his young teammate Sanju Samson.
Rahane powered Rajasthan Royals, who are in desperate need of a win, with his ton and was well supported by skipper Steve Smith's half-century.
Asked to bat, Rahane spearheaded Rajasthan Royals' innings after getting a life on 16, the culprit being Ishant Sharma, who dropped a sitter at short fine-leg.
The drop hurt the visitors, but Delhi did well to prevent RR from going past 200.
Entering the game with over 650 runs against Delhi in the league, Rahane chose his favourite opponents to find form, and when he walked back to the dressing room, he had over 750 to his name.
To start with, Rahane drove Ishant through a crowded off-side field for a boundary, a shot that had his characteristic elegance written all over it.
Stripped of captaincy last week following a string of poor results, the 30-year-old went into attack mode and smashed Axar Patel for a six and a four at the Sawai Man Singh Stadium, which had a dash of pink.
Seeing the flight early, Rahane danced down the crowd to hoist's Axar ball over him and into the sightscreen.
Unfazed by the sight of pacer Kagiso Rabada steaming in, he smoked the South African's short of a length delivery down the ground for another maximum.
He reached his fifty by dispatching Chris Morris over the mid-wicket for a four and celebrated it with fist pumps.
A flurry of boundaries followed as Rahane galloped along to bring up his second IPL hundred.
He raised his bat to acknowledge the applause from the crowd and his dugout that was as relieved as the batsman himself.
(With PTI inputs)
MS Dhoni will play a crucial role when India start their campaign at the ICC World Cup 2019 , starting on May 30 in the UK, believes former India wicket-keeper Kiran More.
"He will definitely be a vital cog for the Indian team at the World Cup," Kiran More said, adding that even though critics try to write him off due to his current form, MS Dhoni is still a force to reckon with at 37.
Former Team India chief selector Kiran More went on to add that age was never a criteria, fitness of players is what counts when competing at the international level.
On Sunday, Dhoni played one of the most unbelievable knocks of his IPL career which almost won Chennai Super Kings the IPL 2019 match against Royal Challengers Bangalore at M Chinnaswamy Stadium, Bengaluru.
Reacting to Dhoni's last over carnage against RCB, the former wicket-keeper said, "Oh!
He was brilliant.
It was an outstanding innings and only goes to show age is never a criteria.
Dhoni is in top form and age is just a number.
Sachin Tendulkar, Rahul Dravid all played till late in their career and with distinction."
In a battle of nerves that went down to the wire, Dhoni failed as CSK lost by a run, but this was after he smashed Umesh Yadav for 24 runs off the first five balls to nearly pull off an improbable target of 26 runs in six balls.
Dhoni's unbeaten 48-ball knock of 84 took More to a nostalgic past.
"The innings took me back to 2006 and maybe, around that time when a young Dhoni took the scene by storm," More said.
Dhoni has been in good form in the ongoing IPL as he has amassed 314 runs in seven innings at an average of 104.66.
The skipper of three-time IPL champions also became the first Indian batsman to hit 200 sixes in the IPL.
Dhoni took his overall IPL tally of maximums to 203.
In the ongoing edition, he has so far smashed 17 sixes.
The CSK, despite the defeat, remained at the top of the IPL 2019 points table with 14 points.
(With IANS inputs)
India vs Pakistan clash is the heart of any International Cricket Council (ICC) tournament due to its high-voltage drama and crowd pulling ability alike.
The arch-rivals also take the clash with utmost importance with their nations' pride at stake.
India and Pakistan will cross swords on June 16 in the World Cup 2019 and Sarfraz Ahmed believes his side has an upper hand against the nemesis.
The Pakistan skipper, highlighting the importance of the clash said, "his side will take every match as a match against India".
"For us all nine matches are important so we will take every match as a match against India," Sarfraz said of Pakistan's bitter rivals -- who have won all six of their previous World Cup clashes.
"We have beaten India in a bigger event recently so we will have that advantage," he added.
Sarfraz also said being underdogs in the marquee tournament eases the pressure on his young team, who leave for the tournament this week.
Pakistan will play three warm-up matches before taking on joint-hosts England in a five-match one-day series and a Twenty20.
The 1992 World Cup winners start their campaign against the West Indies in Nottingham on May 31.
Sarfraz he would prefer his side to go into the tournament under the radar.
"Look, when we go as favourites, then it's a problem, but if we go as underdogs then other teams feel the danger, so I think being underdogs is good for us and eases the pressure," Sarfraz told a press conference in Lahore before they depart for England and Wales on Tuesday.
Sarfraz was among five key players rested for the whitewash ODI series defeat by Australia last month to freshen up the squad before the competition.
(With AFP inputs)
Kuldeep Yadav , who is expected to share India's spin attack in the ICC World Cup 2019 in England and Wales, is going through a worrying run of poor form in the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2019 and that is causing concerns in Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR).
Kuldeep has only taken four wickets for KKR in nine matches, with an economy of 8.66.
Kolkata Knight Riders have suffered five losses in a row and are currently sitting on sixth in the IPL Points Tally .
Definitely a form issue, he (Kuldeep) didn't stand up for us in the previous game.
That's why we had to give him a break and get him back fresh, said KKR captain Dinesh Karthik after their defeat to SRH.
Kuldeep's not been bowling as well as he would have liked, as we would have liked as well.
That's why we gave him a break, that's the only reason that we haven't played him this game.
Kuldeep ranks at seventh place in the ODI bowlers' rankings, a spot above Yuzvendra Chahal, who along with Ravindra Jadeja, are members of the spin department at the World Cup.
Kuldeep has 87 wickets in 44 One-day Internationals (ODIs) at an economy rate of 4.93 and an average of 21.7.
He had taken 12 wickets in the 2017 edition of the IPL.
Kuldeep was dropped from the SRH tie on Sunday on account of his thrashing against the Royal Challengers Bangalore last Friday, where his figures were 1-59 in 4 overs.
The left-arm wrist-spinner was left in tears after the humiliation.
(With inputs from Reuters)
Delhi Capitals (DC) defeated Rajasthan Royals (RR) by 6 wickets in match 40 of the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2019 played at Sawai Mansingh Stadium in Jaipur.
Chasing 192, DC were given a flying start by Shikhar Dhawan.
The left-hander scored a quickfire 54 off 27 balls.
This was his 36th IPL fifty.
Dhawan's innings included 8 fours and 2 sixes.
He put together 72 runs for the 1st wicket with Prithvi Shaw.
Captain Shreyas Iyer (4) fell cheaply.
Rishabh Pant then joined Shaw, to stitch together 84 runs for the 3rd wicket.
Shaw departed for 42 off 39 (4 fours, 1 six).
But, Pant (78 not out) ensured that DC do not falter in their run-chase.
The hard-hitting batsman hit 6 fours and 4 sixes.
Sherfane Rutherford scored 11 off 5 balls (1 four, 1 six) towards the end.
With this win, Delhi Capitals leapfrog Chennai Super Kings to go top of the points table.
Earlier, RR scored 191/6 in 20 overs.
(SCORECARD)
Kavinder Singh Bisht (56kg) upstaged reigning world champion Kairat Yeraliyev, while Amit Panghal (52kg) edged past familiar foe and Olympic champion Hasanboy Dusmatov, assuring themselves of medals at the Asian Boxing Championships in Bangkok on Monday.
In the women's draw, world silver-medallist Sonia Chahal (57kg) advanced to the last-four stage at the continental showpiece.
Bisht clinched a split verdict over Yeraliyev, who hails from Kazakhstan, in a high-intensity contest to assure himself of a maiden Asian championship medal.
Panghal, who claimed a bronze in the 2015 edition of the event, also secured a hard-fought 3-2 triumph over Dusmatov, the former world champion Uzbek he defeated to claim the Asian Games gold just a few months ago.
Before that, the two boxers had also clashed in the world championship quarters where Dusmatov had emerged triumphant.
Sonia too fetched a similarly close victory over Korea's Jo Son Hwa.
Also making the semis was national champion Deepak Singh (49kg), who did not have to step inside the ring to fight for the spot after Afghanistan's Ramish Rahmani gave him a walkover owing to injury.
However, world championship bronze-medallist Lovlina Borgohain (69kg) bowed out of contention after a quarterfinal loss to reigning world champion Chen Nien-Chin of Taiwan.
The highlight of the day was Bisht, who came into the tournament after a gold medal at the GeeBee Tournament in Finland.
The boxer from Uttarakhand showed tremendous grit against a tough opponent.
Yeraliyev succeeded in drawing Bisht into a trap in the opening three minutes of the bout but the Indian fought back hard in the next two rounds.
Bisht fought mostly with a shell guard and managed to thwart Yeraliyev's relentless attacks.
By the second round, the Kazakh, who is a two-time bronze-medallist at the event, dropped his guard.
Although Yeraliyev seemed the quicker of the two, Bisht was managing to outmanoeuvre him quite comfortably.
Yeraliyev was also a bronze-medallist from last year's Asian Games.
Sonia also endured an exhausting bout against Hwa but came out trumps.
The fast-rising boxer from Haryana struck some clean jabs in her thrilling win.
In the evening session, Panghal and Dusmatov had the crowd on its feet with an engrossing showdown.
The Armyman from India dominated the opening round with powerful uppercuts and jabs.
Dusmatov came back strongly and was quite impressive in the second round but the resolute effort was not enough to find favour with the judges.
However, it was deja vu for Borgohain.
She was up against a rival, who defeated her just months ago in the world semifinals.
The stage was different but the result was the same as Chen dominated the bout from start to finish for a 5-0 triumph.
In another women's bout, Seema Poonia (+81kg) lost to China's Yang Xiaoli 5-0, ending another disappointing international outing for her.
Poonia had got a bye into the quarters.
In the last Indian bout of the day, Rohit Tokas (64kg) fought hard but could not avert a 2-3 loss to Mongolia's Chinzorig Baatarsukh in the quarterfinals.
MS Dhoni's daughter Ziva has become a jovial part of the Chennai Super Kings (CSK) camp.
She often breaks the Internet with her adorable gestures and becomes the centre of attraction wherever she goes.
Ziva, on Easter, set out on an "egg-hunting adventure" along with other star kids from the CSK franchise.
The CSK franchise posted the video of the adventure on their Twitter handle where the children can be seen roaming around in a garden, searching for Easter eggs.
The Cubs and their Egg-hunting adventure!
Watch the adorable Super kids celebrate Easter Sunday as a Super family!
#WhistlePodu #Yellove pic.twitter.com/OZvy061jAB Chennai Super Kings (@ChennaiIPL) April 22, 2019 In the IPL 2019 season, while her father and CSK skipper MS Dhoni is leading his franchise to their title defence with an inch-perfect start, Ziva was seen enjoying her time with some of the players.
Ziva was earlier seen giving a lesson to Dwayne Bravo on the correct way to wear a cap.
She was also captured in a video shouting "Go Papa" from the Feroz Shah Kotla stands, when Delhi Capitals hosted CSK.
CSK are currently on top of the IPL 2019 points table with seven wins from 10 matches.
They lost their last encounter by a run to Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) in a final-ball thriller.
They will next host SunRisers Hyderabad (SRH) on Tuesday and a win can help them book a play-offs berth in the IPL 2019.
The much-awaited Indian Premier League (IPL) 2019 playoffs schedule was announced by the BCCI on Monday with the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium in Hyderabad carded to host the IPL 2019 final as Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) failed to get a permission to open stands I, J and K at the MA Chidambram Stadium in Chennai.
Chennai will now host Qualifier 1 on May 7 while Vizag will host the Eliminator and Qualifier 2.
Even though the IPL playoffs are generally hosted in the venues of the winners and runners-up, certain challenges made the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) announce a shift of venues.
"We had to shift the matches from Chennai to Hyderabad after TNCA intimated us that they have not procured the requisite permission to open the three stands I, J and K," Committee of Administrators (CoA) chief Vinod Rai told PTI on Monday.
"Since the gate sales of the knock-out matches is BCCI's prerogative, we had to take a call.
We would be having two knock-out matches in Vizag," he added.
Hyderabad was expected to host the Eliminator and Qualifier 2, but due to the elections scheduled on May 6, 10 and 14, that will not be possible as the police will not be in a position to provide the required security and permissions.
Vizag was kept as back-up and will now host the Eliminator on May 8 and Qualifier 2 on May 10.
Jaipur will host all the four women's matches.
While the first match on May 6 is clashing with elections, RCA has got the required clearance.
The three women's teams will be Trailblazers, Supernovas and Velocity.
(With inputs from agencies)
Table toppers Chennai Super Kings (CSK) witnessed back-to-back losses for the first time in Indian Premier League (IPL) 2019 and would want to put their journey back on track with a win against SunRisers Hyderabad (SRH) when the two sides meet in Chennai on Tuesday.
SRH have regained a bit of momentum with two wins in their last two games, after their lacklustre performance in recent weeks which saw them lose three on the trot, and would want to solidify their place in top-four.
The biggest worry for both teams is that their batting units have not performed collectively.
For CSK it is their top order which hasn't performed while SRH have been marred by their middle order.
For CSK last season's hero Shane Watson (147 runs), Ambati Rayudu (192) and Suresh Raina (207) haven't lived up to expectations.
The pressure has been entirely on Dhoni, who leads the charts with 314 runs and the batting unit needs to step up.
When is the CSK vs SRH IPL 2019 match?
The CSK vs SRH IPL 2019 match will be played on April 23, 2019 (Tuesday).
Where will the CSK vs SRH IPL 2019 match be played?
The CSK vs SRH IPL 2019 match will be played at the MA Chidambaram Stadium, Chennai.
What time does the CSK vs SRH IPL 2019 match begin?
The CSK vs SRH IPL 2019 match will begin at 08:00 PM IST.
Which TV channels will broadcast the CSK vs SRH IPL 2019 match?
The CSK vs SRH IPL 2019 match will be telecast on the Star Sports Network.
How do I watch live streaming of the CSK vs SRH IPL 2019 match?
The live streaming of the CSK vs SRH IPL 2019 match will be available on Hotstar.
You can also catch the live updates on sports.ndtv.com.
(All telecast and streaming timings are as per the information received from the host broadcasters.)
Royal Challengers Bangalore defeated Chennai Super Kings by one run in a last-ball Indian Premier League (IPL) 2019 thriller on Sunday .
Wicketkeeper-batsman Parthiv Patel top-scored with 53 runs off 37 balls, including two boundaries and four sixes, and effected a crucial run-out on the last ball to help RCB beat CSK for the first time since 2014.
Following the victory, RCB shared a video of coach Gary Kirsten and Parthiv Patel sharing a light moment when spinner Yuzvendra Chahal made his appearance with some amusing dance moves.
"Oye jeet gaye," Yuzvendra Chahal was heard singing along with his impromptu Bhangra-like moves.
"#GoodTimes at the RCB camp!
Super Challenger @parthiv9, gaffer @Gary_Kirsten & champ @yuzi_chahal share a light moment post game.
Let's keep it this way until the end of the season, Challengers!
#GameByGame #NeverBackDown #PlayBold," RCB captioned the video on Twitter.
The 15-second-long video left RCB fans in splits with some relating themselves to Chahal after a surprising win.
Jeet gye oyee jeet gayee oyee VIRATIAN #RCB (@ananyaa_18) April 22, 2019 Yuzi Lalitha (@lalitharajesh12) April 22, 2019 Leg-spinner Chahal had claimed a crucial wicket of Ambati Rayudu (29) in RCB's nail-biting win at M Chinnaswamy Stadium.
Currently, RCB are placed at the bottom of the IPL 2019 points table with three wins and seven defeats.
With a win over CSK, Virat Kohli and his team kept their play-offs hope alive.
However, they need to win all their remaining league stage matches to qualify for the play-offs.
RCB will next host Kings XI Punjab in Bengaluru on Wednesday.
Under the captaincy of Ravichandran Ashwin, KXIP will look to avenge their previous defeat.
In the home-leg, Punjab had suffered an emphatic eight-wicket loss to RCB on April 13.
Table toppers Chennai Super Kings (CSK) witnessed back-to-back losses for the first time in Indian Premiere League (IPL) 2019 and would want to put their journey back on track with a win against SunRisers Hyderabad (SRH), when the two sides meet in Chennai on Tuesday.
SRH have regained a bit of momentum with two wins in their last two games, after their lackluster performance in recent weeks which saw them lose three on the trot, and would want to solidify their place in top-four.
The biggest worry for both teams is that their batting units have not performed collectively.
For CSK it is their top order which hasn't performed while SRH have been marred by their middle order.
For CSK last season's hero Shane Watson (147 runs), Ambati Rayudu (192) and Suresh Raina (207) haven't lived up to expectations.
The pressure has been entirely on Dhoni, who leads the charts with 314 runs and the batting unit needs to step up.
"The top three needs to finish more matches," Dhoni said after CSK's one-run loss to RCB on Sunday.
Back at its den after a schedule of away games, Dhoni's men will be slight favourites as it will be Jonny Bairstow's last game for the last year's runners-up as he heads back to England for World Cup preparations.
The Chepauk pitch has been sluggish in the games played so far and coach Stephen Fleming attributed it to being one of the reasons for top-order's poor show.
Teams: Chennai Super Kings: MS Dhoni (capt/wk), Suresh Raina, Ambati Rayudu, Shane Watson, Faf du Plessis, Murali Vijay, Kedar Jadhav, Sam Billings, Ravindra Jadeja, Dhruv Shorey, Chaitanya Bishnoi, Rituraj Gaikwad, Dwayne Bravo, Karn Sharma, Imran Tahir, Harbhajan Singh, Mitchell Santner, Shardul Thakur, Mohit Sharma, K M Asif, Deepak Chahar, N Jagadeesan, Scott Kuggeleijn.
Sunrisers Hyderabad: Kane Williamson (capt), Basil Thampi, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Deepak Hooda, Manish Pandey, T Natarajan, Ricky Bhui, Sandeep Sharma, Siddarth Kaul, Shreevats Goswami, Khaleel Ahmed, Yusuf Pathan, Billy Stanlake, David Warner, Rashid Khan, Mohammad Nabi, Shakib Al Hasan, Jonny Bairstow (wk), Wriddhiman Saha, Martin Guptill, Vijay Shankar, Abhishek Sharma, Shahbaz Nadeem.
(With PTI inputs)
SunRisers Hyderabad (SRH) captain Kane Williamson has heaped praise on the opening pair of David Warner and Jonny Bairstow.
The left-right hand combination of Warner and Bairstow has scored the bulk of runs for SRH.
They stitched together a 131-run stand for the 1st wicket against Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) on Sunday which SRH won by 9 wickets.
While Bairstow notched up his 2nd IPL half-century scoring an unbeaten 80, Warner scored 67.
The Australian is the highest run-getter so far (Orange cap holder) in IPL 2019 with 517 runs in 9 matches at an average of 73.85.
Bairstow has scored 445 runs in 9 matches at an average of 63.57 and is the second highest run-getter at present.
Warner and Bairstow have put together 733 runs in the ongoing IPL.
After the game, SRH skipper Kane Williamson praised the duo and termed them as world-class players.
"They (Bairstow and Warner) are going to be big losses.
They are world class players and they will be missed at the back end."
Bairstow would be leaving SRH after Tuesday's game against Chennai Super Kings (CSK) to attend England's World Cup camp.
Warner will also be leaving for Australia in the later stage of the IPL 2019.
(With IANS inputs)
Jonny Bairstow displayed his batting prowess in the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2019 to become the highest run-scorer on debut.
Bairstow, who is set to leave SunRisers Hyderabad (SRH) on April 23 to join the England national camp for the World Cup, scored 445 runs in the IPL 2019 with two half-centuries and a century to his name.
The 29-year-old was also instrumental with an unbeaten 80 in SRH's last win over Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR).
Bairstow's 445 runs in IPL 2019 come at an average of 63.57.
The wicketkeeper-batsman while opening the innings for SunRisers Hyderabad also maintained a brilliant strike rate of over 158.
Ahead of his departure from the IPL, Bairstow said England will play a lot of cricket in the run up to the World Cup 2019.
"We get back after the Chennai game on April 23.
Then we've got the World Cup camp.
We then play Pakistan in the five-ODI series and then we've got two warm-up matches in which we play Afghanistan and Australia.
And then we go into the World Cup," Bairstow was quoted as saying by icc-cricket.com.
"It's a lot of cricket leading into the World Cup.
And then we've got five Ashes Tests after that."
Hosts England will play two warm-up matches against defending champions Australia and Afghanistan respectively.
England will then begin their World Cup campaign against South Africa on the inaugural day of the marquee tournament.
Novak Djokovic stretched his lead over Rafael Nadal at the top of the ATP rankings on Monday, after the Spaniard's failed bid to win a 12th Monte Carlo Masters title.
Djokovic, winner of the last three Grand Slam tournaments, is now over 3,000 points clear of rival Nadal despite a quarter-final defeat by Daniil Medvedev in the Principality last week.
World number two Nadal dropped ranking points after his title defence ended with a shock semi-final loss to eventual champion Fabio Fognini.
The 31-year-old Italian reached a career-high ranking of 12th after claiming his maiden Masters trophy with a straight-sets win over unheralded Serbian Dusan Lajovic in Sunday's final.
Fognini jumped six spots to close on the top 10, while Lajovic climbed 24 places to 24th.
ATP top 20: 1.
Novak Djokovic (SRB) 11,160 pts 2.
Rafael Nadal (ESP) 8,085 3.
Alexander Zverev (GER) 5,770 4.
Roger Federer (SUI) 5,590 5.
Dominic Thiem (AUT) 4,675 6.
Kevin Anderson (RSA) 4,115 (+1) 7.
Kei Nishikori (JPN) 3,690 (-1) 8.
Stefanos Tsitsipas (GRE) 3,240 9.
Juan Martin del Potro (ARG) 3,225 10.
John Isner (USA) 3,085 11.
Marin Cilic (CRO) 2,845 12.
Fabio Fognini (ITA) 2,840 (+6) 13.
Karen Khachanov (RUS) 2,730 (-1) 14.
Daniil Medvedev (RUS) 2,505 15.
Borna Coric (CRO) 2,480 (-2) 16.
Milos Raonic (CAN) 2,050 (-1) 17.
Marco Cecchinato (ITA) 2,041 (-1) 18.
Nikoloz Basilashvili (GEO) 1,930 (-1) 19.
Gael Monfils (FRA) 1,875 20.
Denis Shapovalov (CAN) 1,820
CHENNAI: All through his career, MS Dhoni has been a hard man to decipher.
He has his own way of going about things and often ends up throwing conventional wisdom out of the window in the process.
Even in the final phase of his career, when he has occasionally struggled for India, he is doing exactly that.
How else can you explain the fact that the last two seasons have been his best ever in the Indian Premier League IPL )?While Dhoni scored 455 runs in 16 matches at an average of 75.83 in Chennai Super Kings victorious campaign in 2018, he is perhaps on his way to bettering those numbers this season.
In just nine matches, he has already racked up 314 runs at a staggering average of 104.66.On Sunday, he also notched up his highest score in IPL with an unbeaten 84 from 48 balls against RCB in an innings that was laced with five fours and seven sixes.
While the end result wasnt what Dhoni would have wanted, the innings is likely to be etched in memory for the foreseeable future and should bode well for India during the ICC World Cup.It seemed as though Dhoni had left himself too much to do at one stage, but his calculator was working all along.
Most impressively, even when they needed a seemingly improbable 36 from the last two overs, he had the gumption to refuse singles and back his own ability to hit the big shots rather than give strike to the new batsman in Dwayne Bravo.Of course, there will be those who argue that he should have shown more faith in Bravo, but Dhoni always has a sound reasoning to back his decisions.Since I had played so many deliveries, I can afford to take that risk, because a lot of boundaries were needed.
So yes, right now you can calculate and say we missed 2-3 runs which would have seen us through, but what you have to see is what if there were a few dot balls and whether we could have got those extra boundaries or not.
The pitch was slightly spongy and the new batsmen found it difficult, Dhoni said at the post-match presentation.If Dhoni made an error in judgment on the night, it was only in failing to read Umeshs slower ball off the final delivery and getting a decent enough connection.
The fact that he didnt do so was as much a surprise to the RCB camp as anyone else.We wanted Dhoni to hit through the off-side.
So we decided to bowl a slower delivery outside the off-stump and he surprisingly missed it.
I wasnt expecting him to miss it, said RCBs Parthiv Patel, who managed to run out Shardul Thakur with a direct hit.It ensured that Dhoni doesnt go home a winner in this one, but that hardly counts in the bigger picture.
The master finisher, against a good pace attack, showed that he is probably playing his best cricket in the last few years.
CSK and Team India fans would hope it goes on for a couple of more months till July 14 to be precise.
JAIPUR: Rishabh Pant said it "felt special" when Sourav Ganguly lifted him to celebrate the youngster's blistering 78 that steered Delhi Capitals to a six-wicket win over Rajasthan Royals and the pole position in the IPL Just as Pant hit the winning runs, finishing it off with a six here on Monday night, former India skipper entered the ground and lifted him up.
"After I finished off the match and coming out, everyone was showering so much love.
It felt special when Sourav sir lifted me, it was a different experience," said Pant during a post-match interaction with teammate Prithvi Shaw "We talk about finishing these big games for the team, and when we do it, feels really special," he added.When asked how he felt about his innings, Pant replied, "It's a great feeling, especially the fact that I was with you (Shaw) in the middle, I knew we would finish it.
"Pant then asked Shaw about his lucky moment against Jofra Archer, when he missed a full toss and the ball went on to hit the stumps and light the bails, which didn't fall on the ground.
"This was a first time experience for me.
I didn't realise it had happened.
I thought it had nicked my bat.
It was only when someone, probably you only told me that the bails had lighted up," revealed Shaw.Opener Shaw (42) and Pant added 84 runs for the third wicket in quick time to help Delhi Capitals cross the line in a steep chase of 192.
JAIPUR: Ignored for the World Cup, Rishabh Pant Monday said the "selection thought was running" in his mind.
Pant made a statement with a blistering 78 off 36 balls and powered Delhi Capitals to a six-wicket win over Rajasthan Royals in the Indian Premier League here.
"I am feeling lovely.
To make your team win in an important match is a good feeling.
I won't lie, the selection thought was running in my mind," Pant said at the post-match press conference.The young keeper-batsman added, "I focussed on my process and it worked for me.
The wicket was playing good, and I just took advantage of that, I guess.
Most important thing for our team is that everyone knows our role, and the support staff tells us, 'this is your role, and this is what is going to happen to you'.
"Pant, who was left out of India's squad at the expense of Dinesh Karthik, smashed six fours and four sixes during his stay in the middle.DC skipper Shreyas Iyer was happy with the way the pitch played, and so was his counterpart Steve Smith.
"When we play away from home, the wickets are so good.
We enjoy playing on the rise, and the wickets are perfectly made for them," Iyer said.
"It was important to get a good start in the Powerplay, and Shikhar has been doing that well.
The way we've been playing away games and coming back to our home games, we are unaware of how our pitch plays itself.
"DC fought back after Rajasthan looked to cross 200 at one stage.
"We knew they were going to go all out, especially the way Ajinkya was batting.
This is a big ground, and the pitch was a belter.
The way they started, we were expecting 200, but the bowlers did well to restrict them to 190," Iyer said.The win lifted Delhi to the top of the table with 11 victories and four defeats from 11 outings.
JAIPUR: In the end, it became a rather one-sided contest with Delhi Capitals crossing the line against Rajasthan Royals with four balls to spare in the Indian Premier League .
With Rishabh Pant playing an unbeaten knock of 78, Delhi Capitals had no trouble chasing a mammoth 192 against a toothless bowling attack.Despite making a tall score, Royals found themselves at the wrong end of the barrel at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium here on Monday.Shikar Dhawan, who said later that he has turned vegetarian some months back, made his intention clear from the beginning, notching up a breezy 54 off 27 balls.
Capitals, high on confidence after their five-wicket win over Kings XI Punjab, did everything right from the beginning, hitting 62 runs in the Powerplay.After losing skipper Shreyas Iyer cheaply, Rishabh Pant and Prithvi Shaw took the team closer home.
It was their partnership that guided the visiting side to a convincing win.
Shaw fell late in the innings but the damage had been done by then.While this helped Delhi inch closer to the playoffs, it added to Royals' woes.Earlier, Ajinkya Rahane dished out a classy 58-ball century and remained unbeaten on 105, while new captain Steve Smith (50) provided the right support as the duo powered Rajasthan Royals to a challenging 191/6.Rahane got a life when Ishant Sharma dropped a simple catch at short fine leg.
But the batsman made amends as he sent the next two balls for a six and a four.With the playoffs battle starting to heat up, it would be the perfect time for Royals to find form.
But it wasnt a smooth start.
They suffered a setback initially when one of their most enterprising and dependable batsmen, Sanju Samson, who has the ability to turn the game on its head, had to leave for a duck.A miscommunication between Samson and Rahane saw the latter losing his wicket.
Rahane was not sure of taking a single off Rabada.
Samson rushed out but didnt notice Rahane stopping initially.By the time it was too late for Samson to react and Rabada picked up the ball and hurled a throw at the non-striker's end, knocking the stumps down to find a diving Samson short of his ground.
NEW DELHI: Has India been denied a legitimate medal upgrade at the ongoing Asian Athletics Championships in Doha?
It was discovered that the mens 10,000m silver medal winner Hassan Chani of Bahrain had infringed on a technical rule by not wearing a bib on his back.Indian runner Murli Kumar Gavit won the bronze, and the Indian contingent filed a verbal protest against Chani but the technical delegate dismissed it.According to International Athletics Federations (IAAF) competition rules, every athlete has to be provided with two bibs that should be 'worn visibly' on the chest and back.
The rules further say that these bibs "must be worn as issued and may not be cut, folded or obscured in any way".
If it's not followed, the rules say, the athlete should be disqualified.Surprisingly, the technical delegate rejected India's protest, instead giving only a yellow card or warning to the Bahraini runner on the ground that it was a mistake by the officials who had failed to spot the missing bib.
Had they followed the rule by spirit, as technical officials do in most events, Chani should have been disqualified, handing Gavit the silver.
"This is an infringement of technical rules.
As you can get disqualified for false start or lane change, similarly you can get disqualified for not wearing bibs.
We had lodged an oral protest.
They said it's the fault of technical officials at call room who did not check.
They said that the athlete was not at fault and they issued a yellow card," Athletics Federation of India 's (AFI) Ravinder Chaudhury told TOI from Doha.When asked why the AFI did not give a written complaint, the AFI official said, "We did whatever we could as a federation.
"Ironically, Indian runner G Lakshmanan had been disqualified after finishing third in 10,000m final in the Indonesia Asian Games last year because of a technical infringement.Lakshmanan had finished with country's first bronze in the event in 20 years but stepped inside the curb after accidently clipping the boot of Chani, who went on to win the gold then.
Lakshmanan was disqualified and a protest by India was turned down.
CHENNAI: There are two ways Chennai Super Kings (CSK) can reflect on their nail-biting one-run defeat to Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) in the Indian Premier League IPL ) on Sunday.
On the one hand, they can be delighted with MS Dhonis stunning assault scoring an unbeaten 84 from 48 balls including 24 runs from Umesh Yadavs final over and the fact that he once again seems to be at the peak of his powers.
On the other hand, they can introspect about their top-order collapse having been reduced to 28/4 and assess why they couldnt cross the finishing line despite such an overwhelming contribution from Dhoni.If CSK who have 14 points were to return to winning ways after two consecutive losses when they take on the in-form Sunrisers Hyderabad at MA Chidambaram Stadium here on Tuesday, the top-order has to collectively come good.
The form of Shane Watson, in particular, is a major worry, with the Aussie only managing 147 runs in 10 innings at an average of 14.70 so far.As CSK coach Stephen Fleming pointed out in Bengaluru on Sunday, they will not allow Dhonis blitzkrieg to paper over the cracks that are gradually starting to appear.What the finish by Dhoni has done is that it has covered up an area of the game that is not going well, i.e., top-order batting.
There will be a lot of focus on how close we got to winning, but we wont cover up the fact that we should have been in a much better position going into the last few overs, the New Zealander said.CSKs travails at the top of the order couldnt be in starker contrast to their opponents, Sunrisers Hyderabad, who have ridden the brilliance of openers David Warner and Jonny Bairstow time and again.
They are currently leading the run-scoring charts in the IPL with 517 and 445 runs respectively and have helped fourth-placed SRH notch up five wins in nine matches.While Warners exploits come as no surprise given that he has been performing consistently in the IPL for a number of years, Bairstow has adapted seamlessly to the league in his very first season.
The Englishman will not be available after the game on Tuesday due to his imminent commitments with the national side, and he will certainly be hoping to finish his season on a high.While the SRH openers may not find the slow Chepauk pitch to their liking, the CSK batsmen have also found the surfaces at home far from ideal.
According to Fleming, it has impeded their top-order from finding some much-needed fluency.Our batting is a big strength on paper, but we have been inconsistent throughout the season.
On the pitches in Chennai, it has been a little difficult to find form.
We are relying too heavily on Dhoni to patch things up.
We wont win the competition if that continues.
While we have been able to get seven wins and are top of the table, we are by no means happy with how we have achieved all of them, he said.While it remains to be seen whether CSK can make amends in the batting department, an equally enthralling battle between leggies Imran Tahir and Rashid Khan is on the cards.
Both have a bagful of variations at their disposal and will be looking to unleash those in conditions favourable to their ilk.
Rishabh pant @RishabPant777 @ParthJindal11 u deserve this .. u r wow https://t.co/tTYgWrZZpH Sourav Ganguly (@SGanguly99) 1555961832000 NEW DELHI: Delhi Capitals mentor Sourav Ganguly praised wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant , who played a scintillating knock to guide his team to a six-wicket win over Rajasthan Royals in the ongoing edition of the Indian Premier League IPL ).Chasing 192, Delhi rode on brilliant half centuries from Shikhar Dhawan (54 off 27) and Pant (78* off 36) at the Sawai Man Singh Stadium in Jaipur on Monday to move to the top of the points table.The 21-year-old, who is not a part of the 15-member India squad for the upcoming World Cup, perhaps played his most responsible knock of the season and helped his side reach the target with four balls to spare.After the game, Ganguly took the Twitter to praise the young batsman and wrote: "Rishabh pant @RishabPant777@ParthJindal11u deserve this ... u r wow (sic)"After the win, Ganguly was also seen rushing to the field and lifting Pant with absolute delight.
Pant, while talking to Prithvi Shaw -- with whom he shared an 84-run stand for the third wicket -- after the match, said it was surreal for him when Ganguly lifted him.Reflecting on this innings, the left-handed batsman said he was happy to contribute in his side's win.
"I am feeling lovely," said Pant at the post-match presentation ceremony after being named the Player of the Match.
"To make your team win in an important match is a good feeling.
"Delhi, sitting at the top of the table with 14 points, will now face Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) at the Feroz Shah Kotla on Sunday.
NEW DELHI: Fresh from regaining the No.
1 spot in 65kg weight category in the latest world rankings, star Indian wrestler Bajrang Punia has set his sights on winning gold at the Asian Wrestling Championships, beginning on Tuesday in Xian, China.Bajrang has been in brilliant form of late, having won 7 gold medals in the last 8 tournaments he has participated in.
His fantastic run also includes gold medals at the 2018 Commonwealth Games and Asiad.The 25-year-old has left no stone unturned in his preparation for the Asian championship.
In fact, Bajrang has added a few new moves under his personal coach Shako Bentinidis of Georgia.
Giving details to TOI in an exclusive chat, Bajrang said, I have added a few new moves in order to surprise my opponents and will try those at the Asian championship.He added: Shako has been helping me to improve my game.
Under his guidance, I have made some improvisations and have been innovating during practice sessions.
Situations may arise, especially against tough opponents during tournaments like the World championship and Olympics, where I may be lagging behind.
I will bring out these moves then.
"It is always important to remain ahead because these days every top wrestler in each category prepares by watching videos of their opponents and all the top wrestlers fight against each other so often that the surprise element gradually diminishes.Bajrang was guarded when asked what these new moves.
He replied: I cant disclose my strategies.
But I have worked on both my defensive as well as my offensive game.Shako has also ensured Bajrang gets better grappling partners during practice sessions.
That has made a lot of difference to my performance over the last two years, said Bajrang.He also heaped praise on mentor Yogeshwar Dutt, who used to be Indias representative in the 65kg category till the 2016 Olympics.Yogi bhai has a simple message before every tournament gold le kar aana (come back with the gold medal).
He always points out the mistakes that I commit during training.
He has fought against most wrestlers who participate in the 65kg category.
Therefore, he knows their strengths and weaknesses.
He gives me vital information and shows me ways to counter my rivals.The wrestler said he is expecting stiff competition from Japanese and Iranian wrestlers during the Asian championship.
However, he added: Wrestlers from Japan and Iran are going to pose the real challenge , but itll be a huge mistake to take others lightly.After the Asian championship, Bajrang will focus on the World Wrestling Championships, which will be held in Astana, Kazakhstan, from September 14-22 later this year.The World championship will be a qualifying tournament for the Olympics and my dream is to win a medal for the country at the Olympics.
The World championship, therefore, holds huge significance.
Apni taraf sebest karunga (Ill try my best).
PANAJI: The All India Football Federation's ( AIFF ) technical committee was impressed with the profile and commitment of Romanian coach Doru Isac , who is now among the leading contenders to take over as India's technical director.The AIFF had called all three shortlisted candidates for an interview in Delhi on Monday.
But while two candidates expressed their inability to travel to India and preferred to do the interview over Skype, Isac had made the long trip from United States, only to be stopped from leaving the Delhi Indira Gandhi International Airport.
"Isac came across as someone who is very level-headed and knowledgeable.
He has a good profile and it certainly impressed the committee that he was the only one who wanted to make a presentation in person, travelling here from Boston.
Unfortunately, there were visa issues.
He had applied for a visa on arrival and couldnt get his papers on time due to Easter holiday, said a senior member of the technical committee.Isac, formerly an assistant to Arsene Wenger, has also worked with former Portugal coach Carlos Queiroz and Bora Milutinovic, the Serbian coach who managed five different teams at the World Cup.The technical committee has also forwarded the name of Georgian coach Gaioz Darsadze to the AIFF.
Darsadze has worked as head coach of Georgia's under-17 team and also managed the Georgia national team in 2005 before being made coaching education director at the Georgian Football Federation.
"The AIFF needs to discuss the salary and other requirements with the coaches before they confirm the appointment.
The coaches are good, now its over to the AIFF," said the official.The third coach in the fray, Jorge Castelo of Portugal, had the most attractive profile and was counted among the favourites.
With a PhD in Sports Science from the University of Lisbon and a long-serving role with technical team of Benfica (1987-1998), the 62-year-old towered over everyone else, until his interview with the technical committee.His presentation left a lot to be desired.
Maybe he wasnt prepared for this or didnt take India seriously, said the member.
NEW DELHI: The cancellation of Indian archers' trip to the World Cup in Medellin , Colombia, has forced the Archery Association of India (AAI) to rework its new selection policy.The AAI has now decided to send its A-list archers to the second stage of the World Cup in Shanghai, China, from May 6 to 12.
Earlier, the AAI had planned to send a B team mostly comprising of second-rung and junior archers to the Shanghai World Cup.For the third stage of the World Cup in Antalya, Turkey, from May 20 to 26, the AAI is mulling over the idea of sending a mixed team, comprising of both the senior and junior archers.
This may largely include top recurve archers.TOI has reliably learnt a decision in this regard will soon be made public by AAI president BVP Rao after consulting his executive committee members.
"Now that nothing can be done about the Medellin World Cup, the AAI has decided to revisit its selection policy and try to figure out a way to allow our archers, who missed Medellin, to compete at the next two stages of the World Cup, starting with Shanghai.
"It's important for our senior archers and medal prospects to get into the Olympics mindset by competing in these World Cups," an AAI official told TOI.
DOHA: Unheralded half miler Gomathi Marimuthu and shot putter Tejinderpal Singh Toor clinched a gold each to share the limelight as India bagged five medals on the second day of the Asian Athletics Championships on Monday.The 30-year-old Gomathi clocked a personal best time of 2 minute 02.70 seconds in the women's 800m race to open India's gold account.
"I did not realise till I crossed the finish line that I have won a gold medal.
The last 150m was very tight race," Gomathi said later.National record holder and pre-competition favourite Toor's first round throw of 20.22m was enough to fetch him a gold in the men's shot put final at the Khalifa Stadium.The 24-year-old Toor, who has a personal best of 20.75m, had entered into the championships as the season leader among the Asians and he lived up to the top billings.Shivpal Singh then added a silver in men's javelin throw by sending the spear to a distance of 86.23m, his personal best.
In the process, the 23-year-old Shivpal also booked a berth for the World Championships to be held at the same venue in September-October as he crossed the qualifying mark of 83m.Jabir Madari Palliyalil and Saritaben Gayakwad bagged a bronze each in men's and women's 400m hurdles respectively to swell the Indian medal tally.With the five medals on Monday, India's medal tally stood at 2 gold, 3 silver and 5 bronze.
India had won 2 silver and 3 bronze on the first day on Sunday.Sprinter Dutee Chand finished a disappointing fifth in the women's 100m dash final by clocking 11.44 seconds.
She ran her worst race in the final after smashing her own national record twice in two days -- in the heats (11.28) on Sunday and semifinals (11.26) on Monday.Dutee had won a bronze in the 2017 edition in Bhubaneswar.The first Indian medal of the second day came from 24-year-old Gayakwad who clocked 57.22 seconds to finish third in women's 400m hurdles, behind Vietnam's Quach The Lan (56.10) and Bahrain's Aminat Yusuf Jamal (56.39).His male counterpart Jabir then added a bronze by running the third fastest men's 400m hurdles by an Indian as he clocked a personal best of 49.13 seconds.In the process, the 22-year-old Jabir joined national record holder Dharun Ayyasamy as the second Indian to qualify for the World Championships 400m hurdles event to be held at the same venue in September-October.
The World Championships qualifying mark is 49.30 seconds.Dharun, who set a new national record of 48.80 during the Federation Cup last month, missed this Asian Championships due to injury.Pre-race favourite Abderrehman Samba of Qatar won gold with a world leading time of 47.51 seconds.However in the men's 400m, India suffered setbacks as defending champion Muhammed Anas and last edition silver winner Arokia Rajiv failed to win a medal.Rajiv finished fourth with a personal best time of 45.37 seconds while Anas, who has been struggling after a leg injury in an accident last year, ended at eighth with a time of 46.10 seconds.In men's 800m final, Muhammed Afsal finished seventh with a time of 1:54.68 while Asian Games silver medallist Jinson Johnson was not able to complete the race.
NEW DELHI: The Indian Premier League final scheduled on May 12 was on Monday shifted from Chennai to Hyderabad after the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) failed to get requisite permission from the government to open the three closed stands.While the Chennai Super Kings still have a chance to play Qualifier 1 (May 7) at home if they finish among the top two teams in the league, but the Eliminator (May 8) and Qualifier 2 (May 10) has been shifted to Visakhapatnam.
"We had to shift the matches from Chennai to Hyderabad after TNCA intimated us that they have not procured the requisite permission to open the three stands I, J and K," Committee of Administrators (CoA) chief Vinod Rai told PTI on Monday.
"Since the gate sales of the knock-out matches is BCCI's prerogative, we had to take a call.
We would be having two knock-out matches in Vizag," he added.The three stands make up for more than 12,000 tickets and BCCI would have lost out on a few crores of gate money.The stands have remained closed since 2012 save one international match between India and Pakistan when an exception was made.Asked if all the knock-out matches' ticket sales are BCCI's prerogative, why was Qualifier 1 allotted to Chennai, Rai reasoned: "CSK, by virtue of being defending champions, were allotted the Qualifier 1 and final.
Now if they finish in the top two, you cannot take away all the games.
They deserve to get at least one of the knock-out games.
"Hyderabad only got the final and not the Eliminator or Qualifier because of the general elections in the Cyber city on May 6, 8 and 10.The first three-team mini women's IPL will be held from May 6-10 in Jaipur with a new team Velocity being added to the existing Trailblazers and Supernovas.
LONDON: Chelsea moved up to fourth in the Premier League after a chaotic 2-2 draw against Burnley, but the sloppy display did little to enhance their hopes of qualifying for the Champions League.Maurizio Sarri's side fell behind to Jeff Hendrick's fine finish before N'Golo Kante equalised moments later.In a frantic opening 24 minutes at Stamford Bridge, Gonzalo Higuain put Chelsea ahead, only for Burnley's Ashley Barnes to punish more dismal defending from the Blues.Without a win in their last two league games, Chelsea will take only slender comfort from climbing one point above fifth placed Arsenal to sit level on points with third placed Tottenham.Chelsea would have gone third with a victory, but instead they have now played a game more than top four rivals Tottenham, Arsenal and Manchester United, who are three points behind in sixth.It was a missed opportunity after defeats for Tottenham, Arsenal and United at the weekend and Chelsea were booed off at full-time.In a fitting coda to a damaging evening, Sarri was sent to the stands for protesting in the final seconds before several members of the Blues bench were involved in a tetchy touchline clash with their Burnley counterparts.Now Arsenal can replace Chelsea in fourth if they avoid defeat at Wolves on Wednesday.Adding to Sarri's problems, he was hit by first half injuries to France midfielder Kante and England winger Callum Hudson-Odoi.Chelsea are fighting to avoid missing out on Champions League qualification for a second consecutive season, which hasn't happened since Roman Abramovich bought the club in 2003.Even an influential display from Eden Hazard couldn't aid their cause against tenacious Burnley.Hazard was named on the PFA Player of the Year shortlist on Saturday and the Belgian, fit to start after suffering an Achilles knock against Slavia, led the Chelsea assault.His stinging drive forced an unconvincing save from Burnley keeper Tom Heaton before his sublime chipped pass set up Higuain for a lob that Ben Mee acrobatically hooked off the line.Despite that fast start, Chelsea were stunned in the eighth minute when Hendrick's rocket put Burnley ahead.It was a poor goal for Chelsea to concede as Cesar Azpilicueta could only head a Burnley corner to the edge of the area, where Hendrick was left unmarked to volley a superb dipping strike past Kepa Arrizabalaga Hazard's majestic assist helped Chelsea draw level four minutes later, underlining why the club are so keen to keep their talisman out of Real Madrid's clutches.Cutting in from the left, Hazard twisted and turned so rapidly that Burnley defender Matt Lowton fell flat on his backside as the Belgian picked out Kante for a powerful shot that flashed past Heaton from 10 yards out.Pushing forward with pace and precision, Chelsea went in front two minutes later when Higuain turned smartly to pick out Azpilicueta.The Chelsea defender executed a deft back-heel to Higuain, who continued his run and crashed a brilliant finish into the roof of the net from an acute angle.It was only Higuain's fourth goal of a disappointing loan spell from Juventus after Sarri again picked his old Napoli player instead of Olivier Giroud , who has complained he wants to play more if he is to remain at Chelsea.Sarri's problems lay at the back rather than up front on this occasion and Burnley punished more poor defending to equalise in the 24th minute.With Chelsea slow to react to a Burnley free-kick, Mee's header was glanced on by Chris Wood and the unmarked Barnes apply the finishing touch with a close-range volley.Hazard was tormenting Burnley and another incisive raid ended with Azpilicueta forcing Heaton to save at his near post.But Chelsea ran out of steam and when Giroud replaced Higuain, the angry Argentine threw a training top and shouted in frustration.
LONDON: Chelsea winger Callum Hudson-Odoi says he will miss the rest of the season after suffering a ruptured Achilles in Monday's 2-2 draw against Burnley Hudson-Odoi limped off helped by two members of Chelsea's medical staff after sustaining the injury in the first half of the Premier League clash at Stamford Bridge.
"Really gutted to end my season with an Ruptured Achilles, gotta work hard and try and come back stronger for next season!!!"
Hudson-Odoi tweeted.Chelsea assistant manager Gianfranco Zola admitted he feared the worst when he faced the media before Hudson-Odoi's tweet.
"Hudson: it looks a serious thing.
Before I can tell you how serious, we have to wait until tomorrow.
But it's not looking good.
It's a problem with his Achilles tendon," Zola said.The 18-year-old's injury is a major blow for Chelsea as they battle to qualify for next season's Champions League either by finishing in the Premier League's top four or winning the Europa League.They are fourth in the top-flight and face Eintracht Frankfurt in the Europa League semi-finals.Hudson-Odoi has also broken into the England team this year and his injury means he is likely to miss the Nations League semi-finals in June.His injury completes a rollercoaster season which saw Hudson-Odoi strongly linked with a move to Bayern Munich after growing frustrated at his lack of first-team action with Chelsea.He eventually convinced Chelsea manager Maurizio Sarri to start him in the Premier League towards the end of the season following a pair of impressive displays for England.Hudson-Odoi's fine performances for Chelsea in recent weeks were one of the few bright spots in a turbulent campaign.However, Zola expects France midfielder N'Golo Kante to recover quickly from a "contusion" to his ribs that forced him to come off at half-time against Burnley.
LONDON: Unai Emery is faced with a defensive dilemma that could make or break Arsenal's hopes of a top-four finish to their Premier League campaign.The Gunners travel to Wolves on Wednesday having missed a chance on tightening their grip on a top four finish ahead of at least two of Tottenham, Chelsea and Manchester United undermined by a 3-2 defeat at home to Crystal Palace on Sunday.Arsenal were extremely poor defensively that day.
Two goals were from badly-defended set-pieces while the other was the result of an extraordinary individual error by Shkodran Mustafi.Gunners manager Emery had opted to rest a number of players after a win at Napoli the previous week that had seen north London side Arsenal into the last four of the Europa League.Now, after that plan backfired, the Spaniard must decide whether to keep the three-man back line that allows Mesut Ozil to flourish in an advanced midfield position behind Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Alexandre Lacazette , or play safe with a traditional back four.Arsenal won 1-0 at Watford in their most recent away day outing with a back four and switched to one at half-time against Palace.It would be no surprise, therefore, if Nacho Monreal came back on the left of the defence and Ainsley Maitland-Niles, who came off the bench at the break on Sunday, was restored to the right.Emery's biggest headache though is to decide if the veteran Laurent Koscielny can carry on playing at a time when Mustafi cannot be relied on.Sunday was not the first time Mustafi's errors had been costly -- an attempt to shield the ball from Wilfried Zaha merely allowed the Palace forward a free run on goal -- yet no Gunner in any position has been picked more in the Premier League this season than the Germany international.Fortunately, Sokratis Papasthopoulos has served a two-game ban and is expected to go straight back in the team.The inexperienced Konstantinos Mavropanos is another option and started against Watford and Palace but was substituted before the hour mark against the former and lasted just 45 minutes in last weekend's match with the Eagles.
"I have the confidence in our way and I want to be positive because this season we have been working and fighting to be in this key moment with the possibility to be in the top four, and we are," Emery said after the Palace loss.
"We are also in the semi-final of the Europa League and we can be proud of all the season.
"Today we can be frustrated, but tomorrow stand up and be ready for the game on Wednesday against Wolves knowing it is going to be very difficult but it is in our hands."
NEW DELHI: Kings XI Punjab are currently placed at number five on the points table with five wins in 10 matches but their star batsman David Miller , nicknamed Killer Miller by some, due to his hard-hitting batting style, is confident that the Punjab team will make it to the play-offs.Miller, who has also been included in the South Africa squad for the upcoming ICC World Cup in England and Wales, spoke to Timesofindia.com in an exclusive interview about KXIPs maiden title chances this year, South Africa's World Cup squad, Ashwin as KXIP captain and more.The boys are doing really well.
Our main target is to make the play-offs.
Chris (Gayle) and KL (Rahul) have put up really good performances so far.
They have given the team decent starts in the tournament.Both have done immensely well for the team.
When you have a good start, the rest of the job becomes easy.
That's what Chris and KL have done for us so far.
They are known to lay solid foundations.
If they stick (around) for 7 to 8 overs, things become easy for the team.It was really a special knock for me.
That kind of moment doesnt come quite often.
I still cherish that moment.
I wanted to win the match for the team.He has been really good as captain.
He leads from the front and by example.
He thinks about the game a lot.
He has played a lot of games for India and has abundance of experience with him .It will be really special.
But we are focusing on one game at a time.
Our main target is to make it to the play-offs.
Once we reach the play-offs, we will try to reshuffle things and plan accordingly.Our side (South African team) looks good and has a good chance of winning the title.
We have a good squad and most importantly we have played good cricket recently.
We have fresh and young players in the side.He is a young and talented bowler.
He has been amazing in the IPL.
I am really happy with the way he is bowling.
He is young and will go a long way.
I am sure he will do well in the World Cup.
LONDON: Norwich City are on the brink of a guaranteed return to the English Premier League despite dropping points in a 2-2 draw with Stoke on Monday.Third-placed Leeds United failed to take advantage of Championship leaders Norwich's slip, losing 2-0 away to Brentford in the late kick-off.Only the top two at the end of the season are guaranteed elevation to English football's lucrative top flight.
The third promotion place goes to the winners of a series of play-off matches between the teams finishing third to sixth.Monday's results left Norwich six points clear of Leeds with only a maximum of six available from the final two games of the regular campaign.Norwich, who need just one more point to be sure of promotion, are also 10 goals better off on goal difference.
"We were of course hoping for a win to make our lives easier but of course success never comes easy," said Norwich manager Daniel Farke.
"This point in the end could be crucial so you have to not lose your head and lose the game.
"Our players are so greedy to win and I like this, but there is no reason to doubt ourselves and we go again at Blackburn.
"Following a second defeat in four days, Leeds fell three points behind second-placed Sheffield United, who won earlier Monday.Leeds could yet overhaul their Yorkshire rivals, but their hopes of automatic promotion may have evaporated before they welcome Aston Villa to Elland Road this coming Sunday.Norwich and Sheffield United -- who also have a better goal difference than Marcelo Bielsa's men -- are both in action on Saturday.At Stoke, Norwich settled into their groove early on with Cuban-born striker Onel Hernandez firing them into the lead in the 24th minute.However, veteran Welsh international defender Ashley Williams levelled two minutes into the second-half with a header at the back post.The visitors went back in front -- shortly after Stoke had missed a great chance to take the lead -- as the Championship's leading scorer Teemu Pukki scored his 28th league goal of the season with a deft header.But the Canaries lead lasted just two minutes as Thomas Edwards restored parity with a superb strike.At Griffin Park, a major decision went against Leeds in the 17th minute when, with the match still scoreless, referee Keith Stroud denied them what seemed a clear penalty after Brentford defender Julian Jeanvier up-ended Patrick Bamford inside the box.West London side Brentford rubbed salt into Leeds' wounds with a goal a minute before half-time from French striker Neal Maupay, who was played in by Sergi Canos.Canos doubled Brentford's lead just after the hour when he lifted the ball over goalkeeper Kiko Casilla after a quick break.Earlier, Sheffield United -- who have lost just one of their last 16 league games -- enjoyed a comfortable 3-0 win away to Hull.Ireland international David McGoldrick scored twice early on with Enda Stevens adding a third shortly before half-time.Aston Villa cemented their place in the play-offs with a club record 10th successive league victory, Jonathan Kodjia's goal securing a 1-0 win over relegation-threatened Millwall.Meanwhile Derby manager Frank Lampard can entertain hopes of contesting the play-offs in his first season in charge after Harry Wilson scored twice in stoppage time to secure a 2-0 win over QPR that put the Rams sixth on goal difference.
NEW DELHI: Ashton Turner owns the record that no player in the cricket world would want to have in his career as the Australian became the first batsman to register five successive ducks in the T20 cricket The 26-year-old Turner on Monday departed for his third golden duck in the IPL 2019 match for Rajasthan Royals against Delhi Capitals.The streak began on February 9 this year when Turner fell for golden duck while playing for Perth Scorchers against Adelaide Strikers in the Big Bash League.The right-handed batsman Turner then failed to open his account in the T20 international against India in Vizag, an innings that lasted five balls.When it comes to IPL, Turner got out on the first delivery for the third successive time.
Before Monday's match, Kings XI Punjab and Mumbai Indians were responsible for Turner's first-ball duck.Turner also became the sixth batsman in the IPL to record three straight ducks.
Ashok Dinda, Rahul Sharma, Gautam Gambhir, Pawan Negi and Shardul Thakur are the other batsmen to have registered three ducks in consecutive matches.
Former New Zealand cricket Head coach Mike Hesson was one of the more successful coaches in Kiwi cricket history.
His first coaching role after leaving the Black Caps was to take over as Head coach of the Kings XI Punjab IPL team.
In a chat with TimesofIndia.com, Hesson spoke about the Punjab squad balance, Ashwin's captaincy, managing the workload of World Cup bound Indian players in his team, KL Rahul and Mohammed Shami, the most impressive IPL captains, the Chris Gayle factor and moreAbsolutely we do.
I think there are a number of teams that have good squads.
We need to adapt and adjust to different surfaces.
We have got a solid squad.
We are a team that likes to understate and hopefully over-deliver.He is very thorough in his preparation.
He certainly does a lot of work behind the scenes in terms of the game and also in terms of getting to know players.
He is a hard worker.
He is certainly very passionate about the team and wants the team to do well.
He does the work off the field.
On the park he leads by example in terms of performance and he has high expectations from everyone around him.
He has done an excellent job this IPL and certainly the players are reacting very well to his leadership.
He is also developing other leaders in the group as well and that's a big part of what we are trying to doIt's an incident that everyone would prefer didn't happen.
I think that's the first point.
I think once it did, we sort of ascertained that it was certainly not a plan, it was an instinctive decision.
It was done in the heat of the battle and at that point in time it was left in the umpires' hands.
Certainly something that I don't think anyone wanted to happenWe have always been pretty careful.
We have a number of optional training sessions.
There are a number of those sessions that both the likes of KL Rahul and Mohammed Shami don't always attend and that gives them a chance to freshen up as well.
The players in consultation with us make decisions that are obviously in the best interest of themselves in terms of not just being ready for the next game in the IPL but also making sure they are not overloading themselves in terms of workload as well.
There's certainly a lot of discussion going on behind the scenes around thatI think the home game against Mumbai was probably our most complete performance.
We were very clinical in terms of how we operated in that game.
I also think the Delhi game (Punjab beat Delhi by 14 runs) where we sort of came from nowhere and showed those fighting characteristics was so important for our group to believe that you are never out of it.
You won't always dominate games, so it's knowing that you got to fight and you got to scrap and you got to hope that you stay in the game long enough and things work out well for you in the endChris is someone who takes a lot of pride in his performance.
He is someone who prepares well behind the scenes and knows his game inside out so he is certainly a huge asset for us.
A year ago or maybe six months ago there were certainly question marks around whether Chris could go again and that series against England certainly shows that he has still got plenty of fire in the belly and certainly plenty of skill to offer.
He has added immensely to us, obviously the partnership at the top with KL Rahul is critical to us.
Just their experience in terms of understanding conditions.
Chris is a big contributor in our group on and off the park.
The guys love playing with him and we are certainly expecting a big finish from himI think Rohit Sharma knows the IPL inside out and I think he knows and understands his players really well.
I think he is able to know when to attack and when to defend.
He is certainly a captain that certainly has a huge amount of success in this tournament and you can see why.
Kane Williamson, who I know well and worked well with over a long period of time, I think he looks like he has got his team humming as well in terms of understanding their roles.
From an Indian perspective, Rohit Sharma, from an IPL perspective is very very good.
It's hard to go past MS Dhoni .
He is the obvious (choice), but I think Rohit Sharma is very goodI don't think it will be difficult.
A lot of international players have been waiting four years for this.
The fact that there is 18-19 days between the IPL final, which not every team is going to be involved in and the first game (of the World Cup), there's plenty of time.
To be fair we often have only a handful of days, in this instance you've got almost three weeks so, it will be an easy transition.
I think some players will be looking to, after their teams are out of the IPL, they will be looking to get a little bit more rest.
It's an exciting format (World Cup).
I think round robin is the best way to go in the World Cup.
Obviously the top four teams will definitely make it, whereas, when you have pool play, sometimes some sides can be lucky, depending on the draw so, I like the format and I think the transition will be pretty straightforward
JAIPUR: Blending panache with power, Ajinkya Rahane roared back to form with a scintillating century and propelled Rajasthan Royals to 191 for six against Delhi Captails in the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2019 clash at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium in Jaipur on Monday.Rahane remained not out on 105 off 63 balls, decorating his knock with three sixes and 11 fours.
Rahane was well supported by Steve Smith who scored 50 off 32 deliveries.Asked to bat by Delhi Capitals , Rahane spearheaded Rajasthan Royals' innings after getting a life on 16, the culprit being Ishant Sharma, who dropped a sitter at sort fine-leg.Entering the game with over 650 runs against Delhi in the league, Rahane chose his favourite opponents to find form, and when he walked back to the dressing room, he had over 750 to his name.To start with, Rahane drove Ishant through a crowded off-side field for a boundary, a shot that had his characteristic elegance written all over it.Stripped of captaincy last week following a string of poor results, the 30-year-old went into attack mode and smashed Axar Patel for a six and a four at the Sawai Man Singh Stadium, which had a dash of pink.Seeing the flight early, Rahane danced down the crowd to hoist's Axar ball over him and into the sightscreen.Unfazed by the sight of pacer Kagiso Rabada steaming in, he smoked the South African's short of a length delivery down the ground for another maximum.He reached his fifty by dispatching Chris Morris over the mid-wicket for a four and celebrated it with fist pumps.
A flurry of boundaries followed as Rahane galloped along to bring up his second IPL hundred, the first coming seven years ago.He raised his bat to acknowledge the applause from the crowd and his dugout that was as relieved as the batsman himself.
Jeff McNeil had two hits, including a solo home run, to lift the host New York Mets past the Philadelphia Phillies 5-1 on Monday in a game that saw Phillies right fielder Bryce Harper get ejected while arguing from the dugout.
Apr 22, 2019; New York City, NY, USA; New York Mets starting pitcher Steven Matz (32) pitches against the Philadelphia Phillies during the first inning at Citi Field.
Mandatory Credit: Andy Marlin-USA TODAY Sports Mets starter Steven Matz (2-1) was effective, allowing three hits and one run in six innings.
He struck out six and walked two.
It was a completely different outcome from his last start against the Phillies in which he faced eight batters and failed to record an out on April 16.
Rhys Hoskins ripped a solo homer for the Phillies.
Cesar Hernandez had Philadelphias only other two hits in the game, as the Phillies failed to support starter Jake Arrieta (3-2).
The right-hander threw six-plus innings and gave up seven hits and four runs (three earned).
He fanned seven and walked one.
In a bizarre circumstance, Harper was tossed with two outs in the fourth.
After a questionable called strike to Hernandez, plate umpire Mark Carlson motioned to the dugout and ejected Harper for arguing balls and strikes.
Harper had reached base in all of his previous 21 games with the Phillies before going 0-for-2 with two strikeouts and being ejected.
Rockies 7, Nationals 5 Nolan Arenado homered and finished with three hits including the 1,000th of his career while Mark Reynolds and Raimel Tapia also went deep to lead Colorado past Washington in Denver.
Trevor Story had two hits and Seunghwan Oh (1-0) pitched an inning of relief for the victory.
Colorado has won seven of its past eight following an eight-game losing streak.
Wade Davis pitched the ninth inning for his second save.
Arenados milestone hit came leading off the seventh inning, when he hit his fourth home run of the season off reliever Wander Suero (1-2) to make it 6-5.
Brian Dozier homered, and Howie Kendrick drove in two for the Nationals.
Cardinals 13, Brewers 5 Dexter Fowler matched his career high with four hits, drove in four runs and scored three to help St. Louis throttle visiting Milwaukee in the opener of the three-game series.
Paul Goldschmidt had three hits and three RBIs, and Jose Martinez, Paul DeJong and Matt Carpenter contributed two hits each for St. Louis, which blew the game open with seven runs in the seventh inning.
Cardinals right-hander Jack Flaherty (2-1) made his third start of the season against the Brewers and delivered his longest outing, going six innings and giving up four runs and three hits, all homers.
He struck out a season-high 10 and walked one.
Milwaukees Adrian Houser (0-1), making his first major league start, went four-plus innings and gave up five runs on nine hits.
Twins 9, Astros 5 Jorge Polanco recorded his second four-hit game of the season, and he belted a two-run, two-out homer in the eighth inning to carry Minnesota to victory in the opener of a three-game series in Houston.
The Twins, winners of five of their past six, scored two in the first and another run in the second Jason Castros first home run of the season leading off the frame off Brad Peacock (2-1).
Minnesotas Jake Odorizzi (2-2) limited the Astros to two runs on eight hits over 5 2/3 innings, striking out two without walking a batter.
Houston trailed 7-1 before getting a solo homer from Michael Brantley in the sixth inning and a three-run blast from Carlos Correa in the seventh, but like Sunday night (when Houston rallied from a nine-run deficit and loaded the bases with two outs in the ninth inning before falling 11-10), the Astros couldnt complete the comeback.
Rays 6, Royals 3 Tampa Bay hit for the cycle in the bottom of the seventh, scoring three runs to emerge with a win over visiting Kansas City.
Mike Zunino hit a 425-foot, two-run home run to dead center for the key hit in the inning.
Wilmer Font (1-0) recorded the final out of the seventh and picked up the victory for the Rays, who snapped a four-game losing streak.
Emilio Pagan pitched the ninth to record up his first major league save.
Brad Keller (2-2) took the loss for the Royals, who dropped their fourth in a row.
He had not surrendered more than three earned runs in any of his first five starts, but he gave up five runs on seven hits in 6 1/3 innings.
Diamondbacks 12, Pirates 4 David Peralta smacked a three-run triple and Christian Walker added a two-run homer during a seven-run seventh inning as Arizona clobbered host Pittsburgh.
Pirates starter Joe Musgrove, who had allowed two earned runs this season, was charged with three runs and five hits in six-plus innings.
He struck out five and walked two.
Kyle Crick (0-1) took the loss after giving up four runs in two-thirds of an inning.
Eduardo Escobar homered and drove in three runs, and John Ryan Murphy added three hits for Arizona, which has won six of its past eight games.
Diamondbacks starter Zack Godley gave up four runs and seven hits in four innings, but Matt Andriese (3-1) got the win with two scoreless innings of relief.
White Sox 12, Orioles 2 Jose Abreu hit his 150th career home run and drove in five runs while James McCann hit a homer and had four RBIs as Chicago scored a season high in runs to win at Baltimore.
Orioles starter David Hess (1-4) kept the White Sox quiet in the first four innings, but homers have troubled him this season, and it happened again in this game.
With the game scoreless, Tim Anderson started the fifth with a double and Nicky Delmonico walked.
McCann then crushed a three-run shot to left-center the eighth surrendered by Hess.
Manny Banuelos made his first start this season for Chicago his first major league start since September 2015 and scattered five hits in four shutout innings.
Jace Fry (1-0) got the victory in relief.
Slideshow (6 Images) Tigers at Red Sox, ppd.
Detroits scheduled game at Boston was rained out and will be made up as part of a day-night doubleheader Tuesday.
Field Level Media
Boston Red Sox right-hander Nathan Eovaldi will undergo elbow surgery on Tuesday, multiple media outlets reported Monday.
FILE PHOTO: Apr 17, 2019; Bronx, NY, USA; Boston Red Sox pitcher Nathan Eovaldi (17) reacts against the New York Yankees during the fourth inning at Yankee Stadium.
Mandatory Credit: Adam Hunger-USA TODAY Sports Eovaldis surgery is to remove loose bodies in his right elbow.
He is expected to miss four to six weeks.
The 29-year-old was placed on the 10-day injury list on Saturday.
He has a 6.00 ERA in four starts this season.
Eovaldi pitched Wednesday against the New York Yankees and gave up one unearned run and three hits over six innings.
He didnt experience any problems during the start but he was unable to straighten his right arm the following day.
The MRI exam of New York Mets right-hander Jacob deGroms right elbow revealed no damage, and the reigning National League Cy Young Award winner could make his scheduled Friday start.
No problems whatsoever, New York general manager Brodie Van Wagenen told reporters.
We got the answers we were hoping for.
After the exam came back without a problem, deGrom threw a 30-pitch bullpen session prior to the Mets Monday game against the Philadelphia Phillies.
The Pittsburgh Pirates activated outfielder Gregory Polanco from the injured list prior to their game against the visiting Arizona Diamondbacks.
Polanco has been working his way back from major surgery on his left shoulder.
He injured the shoulder and a knee while sliding into second base during a game against the Miami Marlins on Sept. 7.
The Colorado Rockies placed staff ace Kyle Freeland on the 10-day injured list due to a blister on his left middle finger.
The left-hander pitched six scoreless against the Philadelphia Phillies on Thursday before he departed after 86 pitches due to the blister.
Freeland, 25, is 2-3 with a 4.23 ERA in five starts this season.
Last season, he went 17-7 with a 2.85 ERA in 33 starts while finishing fourth in the National League Cy Young Award balloting.
The New York Yankees released left-hander Gio Gonzalez from his minor league contract, officially making the 33-year-old a free agent.
Gonzalez opted out of the deal on Saturday, leaving the Yankees facing a 48-hour deadline in which to either place on him on the 25-man roster or grant him his release.
He would have received a $3 million base salary plus $300,000 for each start if he was added to the roster.
Gonzalez went 2-1 with a 6.00 ERA in three starts at Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre.
A Florida judge ruled that Detroit Tigers designated hitter Miguel Cabrera must support the two children he fathered out of wedlock the same way he does the children born to his wife, the Detroit Free Press reported.
The decision is the latest turn in an 18-month battle between Cabrera and Belkis Rodriguez of Orlando, Fla.
In her 2017 child support lawsuit, she contended her children deserve to have the same lifestyle his other three children have.
Orange County Circuit Court Judge Alan Apte agreed with Rodriguez, writing in his ruling, The court finds that the parties children should have the same opportunities as the opportunities that the father provides to his three other children that he and his wife share.
The St. Louis Cardinals placed starting pitcher Michael Wacha on the 10-day injured list with patellar tendinitis in his left knee, retroactive to April 19.
Slideshow (5 Images) Wacha is 1-0 with a 4.64 ERA through four starts this season, including a 6-3 win against the Milwaukee Brewers in his most recent start last Wednesday.
The 27-year-old right-hander leads the Cardinals with 24 strikeouts in 21 1/3 innings.
Field Level Media
The Arizona Cardinals still havent tipped their hand as to how theyll use the No.
1 pick in the NFL draft on Thursday, and teams continue to inquire about a trade, NFL Networks Ian Rapoport reported Monday.
FILE PHOTO: Former NFL quarterback Peyton Manning arrives prior to the state funeral for former U.S. President George H.W.
Bush at the Washington National Cathedral in Washington, U.S., December 5, 2018.
REUTERS/Jim Young He also said general manager Steve Keim, coach Kliff Kingsbury and owner Michael Bidwill have a final meeting scheduled to make a decision.
The assumption is Cardinals will draft Kyler Murray, who won the Heisman Trophy and led Oklahoma to the College Football Playoff in 2018.
Reports over the weekend surfaced that the Cardinals plan to keep Josh Rosen at quarterback and draft a difference-maker on defense.
CBS Sports columnist Pete Prisco reported that Bidwill wanted the team to take Murray, but that has changed.
Now all of a sudden theyre pulling back and, from what I have been told, theyre going to go in a different direction, Prisco said.
Theyre not going to draft Kyler Murray.
Washington Redskins senior vice president of player personnel Doug Williams made it clear that the team is still seeking an upgrade at quarterback after trading for Case Keenum last month.
The Redskins, who hold the 15th pick in Thursdays first round, have been connected to some of the drafts top quarterback prospects and also to Rosen, whom the Cardinals could trade if they draft Murray.
Case has done a good job over the last couple of years where hes been, and you know, we needed a quarterback and was able to trade for Case, Williams told reporters.
But that does not put us out of the realm of picking a quarterback if theres one there that we like at 15.
We dont know whos going to be there at 15.
Weve got some guys we do like, and if those guys are there, thats the discussion that has to be had.
Peyton Manning will not join ESPNs Monday Night Football broadcast team this season, Sporting News reported.
The future Hall of Fame quarterback met with network executives last month in Denver about replacing Jason Witten, who has returned to the Dallas Cowboys after one season in the booth.
But Manning is reluctant to comment on games while his younger brother, Eli, is still playing, according to NBC Sports Pro Football Talk.
Elis New York Giants have two Monday night games scheduled in 2019.
Former Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Donovan McNabb clarified his recent comments about current Eagles quarterback Carson Wentz.
For those of you who misread, didnt understand, were confused or just didnt like my comments let me clarify it for you, McNabb wrote on Twitter.
Let me start by saying theres no beef, riff or ill-will toward (Wentz) or the @Eagles.
My comments were strictly based off of experience and understanding of how the business of football works.
McNabb said on Saturday the team should consider drafting another quarterback if Wentz doesnt take the Eagles beyond the second round of the playoffs within two years or so.
A week after Russell Wilson agreed to his four-year, $140 million deal with the Seahawks, he reportedly decided to share the wealth with the Seattle offensive linemen, gifting them each $12,000 in Amazon stock.
Each of Wilsons 13 linemen reportedly received a letter with the gift, expressing his gratitude and hopes that the gift would help them prepare for life after football.
You sacrifice your physical and mental well-being to protect me, which in turn allows me to provide and care for my family.
This does not go unnoticed and it is never forgotten, he wrote in a letter first published by TMZ.
Atlanta Falcons defensive tackle Grady Jarrett signed his franchise tender on Monday, locking in a one-year, $15,209,000 salary for 2019.
The team has been vocal about its intentions to sign Jarrett to a long-term deal, which the sides have until July 15 to negotiate.
If no extension is agreed upon, he will play out 2019 on the tag.
The Falcons also announced the signing of free agent safety J.J. Wilcox, who spent 2018 with the New York Jets and Indianapolis Colts.
The Green Bay Packers intend to exercise their fifth-year option, expected to be worth about $8 million, on defensive tackle Kenny Clark for the 2020 season.
General manager Brian Gutekunst confirmed that plan to reporters, although the team has until a May 3 deadline to make the move official.
Buffalo signed free agent running back T.J. Yeldon to a two-year contract.
Terms were not disclosed.
Yeldon, 25, had 414 rushing yards and one touchdown with the Jacksonville Jaguars last season.
The Denver Broncos signed defensive linemen Billy Winn and Mike Purcell, along with offensive lineman Jake Rodgers.
Winn was out of the league last year after missing all of 2017 with a knee injury.
He had 19 tackles for Denver in 2016.
Field Level Media
FILE PHOTO: NFL Football - Seattle Seahawks v Oakland Raiders - NFL International Series - Wembley Stadium, London, Britain - October 14, 2018 Seattle Seahawks' Russell Wilson celebrates after the match Action Images via Reuters/Paul Childs/File Photo A week after Russell Wilson agreed to his four-year, $140 million deal with the Seahawks, he reportedly decided to share the wealth with the Seattle offensive linemen, gifting them each $12,000 in Amazon stock.
Each of Wilsons 13 lineman reportedly received a letter with the gift, expressing his gratitude and hopes that the gift would help them prepare for life after football.
You sacrifice your physical and mental well-being to protect me, which in turn allows me to provide and care for my family.
This does not go unnoticed and it is never forgotten, he wrote in a letter first published Monday by TMZ.
When I sat down to think of ways to honor your dedication, a dozen different ideas came to mind, the letter continued.
Some were flashy, some were cool.
But I wanted to give you something that had a lasting impact.
Something that would affect the lives of you, your family, and your children.
... You have invested in my life ... this is my investment into yours.
The grand total came to $156,000, which TMZ reports Wilson paid with a credit card.
Last week, 30-year-old Wilson signed an extension with the Seahawks that made him the highest-paid player in the league.
Field Level Media
The MRI exam of New York Mets right-hander Jacob deGroms right elbow revealed no damage on Monday, and the reigning National League Cy Young Award winner could make his scheduled Friday start.
FILE PHOTO: Apr 14, 2019; Atlanta, GA, USA; New York Mets starting pitcher Jacob deGrom (48) pitches against the Atlanta Braves during the first inning at SunTrust Park.
Mandatory Credit: Dale Zanine-USA TODAY Sports/File Photo The Mets were breathing a sigh of relief after the club aces exam came back clean.
No problems whatsoever, New York general manager Brodie Van Wagenen told reporters.
We got the answers we were hoping for.
After the exam came back without a problem, deGrom threw a 30-pitch bullpen session prior to Mondays game against the Philadelphia Phillies.
DeGrom was placed on the 10-day injured list on Friday but felt completely normal during a throwing session the following day.
After getting some treatment (Friday) and getting things moving around, I started feeling a little better, deGrom told reporters after the Saturday session.
So I decided to throw today and actually felt good with how it went.
DeGrom is eligible to be activated on Friday when the Milwaukee Brewers come to town.
He was roughed up badly in each of his past two starts to see his ERA soar to 3.68.
After allowing no runs and eight hits over 13 innings while winning his first two starts, deGrom allowed nine runs and 13 hits in nine innings over the past two.
Most alarming was that he served up five total homers in the two setbacks.
The 30-year-old recently signed a five-year, $137.5 million extension.
DeGrom posted a spectacular 1.70 ERA and struck out 269 in 32 starts last season while winning the Cy Young Award despite having a 10-9 record.
Also Monday, the Mets activated third baseman Todd Frazier (oblique) from the injured list, and he was set to make his season debut against the Phillies.
Frazier, 33, batted .213 with 18 homers and 59 RBIs in 115 games last season.
Left-hander Justin Wilson (elbow) was placed on the injured list, right-hander Paul Sewald was optioned to Triple-A Syracuse and infielder Luis Guillorme was recalled from the same club.
The 31-year-old Wilson was 1-1 with a 3.24 ERA in nine appearances this season.
Sewald, 28, had a 3.60 ERA in three appearances for New York earlier this season, and the 24-year-old Guillorme was 1-for-9 in eight appearances with the Mets earlier this season.
Second baseman Robinson Cano (right hand) wasnt listed in the starting lineup one day after being hit by a pitch.
Field Level Media
FILE PHOTO: Apr 14, 2019; Columbus, OH, USA; A view of the Stanley Cup Playoffs logo on a hat in the team store prior to game three of the first round of the 2019 Stanley Cup Playoffs between the the Tampa Bay Lightning and the Columbus Blue Jackets at Nationwide Arena.
Mandatory Credit: Aaron Doster-USA TODAY Sports/File Photo (Reuters) - The National Hockey League said on Monday it would purchase carbon credits to offset airline emissions of heat-trapping greenhouse gases during the Stanley Cup playoffs.
For the first round of the playoffs, which has the highest number of teams traveling and is currently underway, the NHL will offset more than 465 metric tons of carbon emissions, equivalent to taking 99 cars off the road for one year.
The league will purchase the offsets from Portland, Oregon-based Bonneville Environmental Foundation, which operates offset projects that capture or cut greenhouse gases emitted from animal waste, landfills and fossil fuel use.
The announcement, which coincides with Earth Day, is part of the NHLs efforts to address climate change.
Last season the NHL published its second Sustainability Report, which examined its commitment to ensure all levels of hockey from the frozen ponds it was invented on to professional arenas thrive for future generations.
The report estimated that in the coming decades the average length of the skating season may shrink by one third in eastern Canada and by 20 percent in western Canada.
In response the league has ramped up efforts at its arenas to cut carbon emissions, reduce waste and conserve water, among other initiatives.
Miami Heat center Hassan Whiteside was allegedly embezzled out of $2.75 million by attorney Michael Avenatti 27 months ago, the Los Angeles Times reported.
FILE PHOTO: Apr 7, 2019; Toronto, Ontario, CAN; Miami Heat center Hassan Whiteside (21) tries to get around Toronto Raptors forward Pascal Siakam (43) at Scotiabank Arena.
Mandatory Credit: John E. Sokolowski-USA TODAY Sports/File Photo Alexis Gardner, a former girlfriend of Whiteside, retained Avenatti to negotiate a potential lawsuit against Whiteside and Avenatti struck a $3 million deal.
Whiteside made an initial $2.75 million payment to Avenatti in January 2017 but none of the money was passed on to Gardner, according to the report.
Avenatti was entitled to just over $1 million in legal fees but hid the payment from Gardner, according to prosecutors, and took $2.5 million to buy a share of a private jet.
Avenatti was indicted on April 10 by a grand jury in Santa Ana, Calif. Gardner is one of five people who had money stolen from them by Avenatti, prosecutors said.
According to prosecutors, Avenatti repeatedly told Gardner that Whiteside wasnt making his payments.
Eventually, Avenatti made 11 payments to Gardner over a 15-month period always misrepresenting them as a payment from Whiteside totaling $194,000 before stopping in June 2018.
On Sunday, Avenatti commented on this Twitter account, saying in part: I look forward to all the details coming out regarding Hassan Whitesides settlement, the money received by the client, the money deducted for fees and costs, etc.
and the reason why he paid the money.
The reason for a $3 million settlement isnt publicly known and Whiteside offered no explanation in a joint statement provided to the Los Angeles Times.
We entered into a mutually agreed upon settlement more than two years ago following the end of our relationship; a settlement that reflected Alexis investment of time and support over a number of years as Hassan pursued a career in the NBA, Whiteside and Gardner said in a statement released by Whitesides agent.
It is unfortunate that something that was meant to be kept private between us is now being publicly reported.
We have both moved on amicably and wish nothing but the best for each other.
Last month, Avenatti was charged with attempting to extort up to $25 million from Nike by threatening to expose misconduct by Nike employees involving payments to college basketball players.
He mentioned former Arizona center Deandre Ayton and Oregon big man Bol Bol as players who received money from Nike as recruits.
About 10 days later, Avenatti said the mother of Duke star Zion Williamson was paid by Nike for bogus consulting services as part of the deal to get Williamson to choose the Blue Devils.
Avenatti jumped into the public eye when he was the attorney for adult film star Stormy Daniels during her legal battles with President Donald Trump.
He and Daniels parted ways earlier this year.
Whiteside, 29, just completed the third season of a four-year, $98 million contract.
He averaged 12.3 points and 11.3 rebounds in 72 games (53 starts) this past season.
Field Level Media
Argentinas Diego Schwartzman overcame 53 unforced errors to defeat Japans Yoshihito Nishioka 4-6, 6-4, 6-2 in the opening round Monday at the Barcelona Open Banc Sabadell in Barcelona, Spain.
FILE PHOTO: Tennis - ATP 1000 - Monte Carlo Masters - Monte-Carlo Country Club, Roquebrune-Cap-Martin, France - April 15, 2019 Argentina's Diego Schwartzman in action during his first round match against Great Britain's Kyle Edmund REUTERS/Eric Gaillard/File Photo Nishioka struggled with cramps during the 2-hour, 19-minute match.
Schwartzman, ranked No.
25 in the world, was playing his third match in Barcelona after having to qualify because he forgot to sign up before the tournament deadline.
Schwartzman will face third-seeded Dominic Thiem of Austria in the second round.
Thiem is 3-2 in their head-to-head series, but Schwartzman has won the last two meetings including a three-setter at the Argentina Open in February.
Elsewhere on Monday, Argentinas Leonardo Mayer outlasted Romanias Marius Copil 6-3, 6-7 (3), 7-5 and will face top seed and 11-time champion Rafael Nadal.
Two other former champions are in the draw, with 2010 winner Fernando Verdasco defeating Feliciano Lopez 6-4, 6-3 in an all-Spanish battle.
Japans Kei Nishikori, the 2014 Barcelona champ and fourth seed this year, will face Taylor Fritz in the second round after Fritzs 6-3, 6-4 win against fellow American Reilly Opelka.
Other winners Monday included Mackenzie McDonald, Spains Jaume Munar, Germanys Jan-Lennard Struff, Chiles Nicolas Jarry and Hungarys Marton Fucsovics.
Hungarian Open Italys Matteo Berrettini fired 11 aces in a 6-4, 6-4 upset of seventh-seeded Mikhail Kukushkin of Kasakhstan in first-round action in Budapest.
In the second round, Berrettini will face Slovenian Aljaz Bedene, who was down a double break in the first set but rallied for a 7-6 (3), 6-3 victory against Australias Bernard Tomic.
Eighth-seeded Radu Albot of Moldova opened with a 7-5, 6-4 win against Sergiy Stakhovsky, breaking the Ukrainian twice in each set and closing it out on his fourth match point in 1 hour, 41 minutes.
Albot will face qualifier Filip Krajinovic of Serbia, who dropped five match points in the second set but recovered to beat Italys Andreas Seppi 6-2, 6-7 (3), 7-5.
Field Level Media
Steve Williams, who caddied for Tiger Woods for 13 years, was as transfixed as any observer when his former employer made a run to his fifth Masters title earlier this month.
FILE PHOTO: Tiger Woods of the U.S. (L) stands behind his former caddie Steve Williams at the start of his final round of the British Open golf Championship at Muirfield in Scotland July 21, 2013.
REUTERS/Russell Cheyne/File Photo Williams, who retired to his native New Zealand in 2017, told ESPN in a story published Monday that he hadnt watched any golf on television since retirement until Woods was making a run on Sunday at Augusta.
Williams said he tuned in from New Zealand where it was around 5 a.m. on Monday as the final grouping was reaching the 15th hole.
Woods went on to birdie that hole and take the outright lead for good, while Italys Francesco Molinari double-bogeyed and fell out of contention.
Given the fact that two years ago, he stated that he was unlikely to play competitive golf again, or was seriously doubting it ... he wouldnt just say that in jest, Williams told ESPN of Woods, who made his return to the tour last year after a fourth back surgery.
There would have been a lot of truth to it.
For him to actually come back full cycle to win a major championship ... its just an incredible story.
Its an amazing achievement of pure guts and hard work for him and just a true indication of what he is made of.
It proves again what an amazing athlete he is.
Its just an amazing achievement.
Williams, 55, became Woods caddie in 1999 and remained on the bag until Woods fired him in July of 2011, covering a span of 13 of Woods 14 major victories to that point.
Joe LaCava has caddied for Woods since.
Williams, who had caddied for Adam Scott while Woods was away from the tour, joined Scott regularly from 2011 until September of 2017.
Scott won the 2013 Masters with Williams.
After seeing Woods claim the 15th major of his career and his first since 2008, Williams touted how strongly the achievement will impact the sport.
You look at it from a broader perspective, Williams said.
Here in New Zealand, golf is somewhat struggling.
The number of rounds is down, junior numbers are slipping.
Now that Tiger has come right back there again, winning a major championship, possibly putting Jacks (Nicklaus) record (of 18 career major wins) in play again ... it just re-energizes the game.
Its absolutely awesome.
Hes the only guy who can energize the game like that.
All those kids who were watching had to think it was fantastic.
And so what hes done is a remarkable achievement.
Its so positive.
Field Level Media
FILE PHOTO: Mar 23, 2019; Tampa, FL, USA; New York Yankees pitcher Gio Gonzalez (43) throws a pitch during the sixth inning against the Toronto Blue Jays at George M. Steinbrenner Field.
Mandatory Credit: Kim Klement-USA TODAY Sports/File Photo The New York Yankees released left-hander Gio Gonzalez from his minor league contract on Monday, officially making the 33-year-old a free agent.
Gonzalez opted out of the deal on Saturday, leaving the Yankees facing a 48-hour deadline in which to either place on him on the 25-man roster or grant him his release.
He would have received a $3 million base salary plus $300,000 for each start if he was added to the roster.
Gonzalez went 2-1 with a 6.00 ERA in three starts at Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre.
Gonzalez didnt land a major league contract in the off season as a free agent, but the market might be a little more active now.
The two-time All-Star is 127-97 with a 3.69 ERA in 11 big league campaigns.
He was 10-11 with a 4.21 ERA while splitting last season with the Washington Nationals and Milwaukee Brewers.
Gonzalezs best season came in 2012 when he went 21-8 with a 2.89 ERA for the Nationals.
He began his career with the Oakland Athletics in 2008 and was traded to Washington after the 2011 season.
Field Level Media
MADRID (Reuters) - Home favorite Marcel Granollers was the main casualty on the opening day of the Barcelona Open as the tournament got underway amidst murky, grey skies in Catalonia.
The Spaniard was beaten 7-5 4-6 6-4 by Chilean Nicolas Jarry, who will face second seed Alexander Zverev in the second round.
Elsewhere, Fernando Verdasco beat fellow Spaniard Feliciano Lopez 6-4 6-3 on the Rafa Nadal Court, while Argentinas Diego Schwartzman came back from a set down to see off Japans Yoshihito Nishioka 4-6 6-4 6-2.
Leonardo Mayer beat big-serving Romanian Marius Copil 6-3 6-7(3) 7-5 to set up a second round meeting with 11-times champion and top seed Rafael Nadal.
UFC veteran fighter Rodrigo de Lima was killed Sunday following a dispute with a rideshare driver in Belem, Brazil, according to authorities.
He was 28.
MMA Fighting reported Monday that de Lima, known as Monstro, argued with the driver, who stopped the car and the fighter exited.
The driver is alleged then to have turned around and struck de Lima from behind before driving away.
De Lima leaves behind a wife and two children.
The last fight for de Lima (9-3-1) came last June against Luiz Fabiano in the co-main event of the Shooto Brazil 85.
He won via submission.
Field Level Media
A Florida judge ruled that Detroit Tigers designated hitter Miguel Cabrera must support the two children he fathered out of wedlock the same way he does the children born to his wife, the Detroit Free Press reported Monday.
FILE PHOTO: Mar 14, 2019; Lakeland, FL, USA; Detroit Tigers infielder Miguel Cabrera (24) looks on prior to the game against the Boston Red Sox at Publix Field at Joker Marchant Stadium.
Mandatory Credit: Douglas DeFelice-USA TODAY Sports The decision is the latest turn in an 18-month battle between Cabrera and Belkis Rodriguez of Orlando, Fla.
In her 2017 child support lawsuit, she contended her children deserve to have the same lifestyle his other three children have.
Orange County Circuit Court Judge Alan Apte agreed with Rodriguez.
The court finds that the parties children should have the same opportunities as the opportunities that the father provides to his three other children that he and his wife share, the judge wrote in his ruling.
The court finds this to be a good fortune case ... and the childrens right to benefit from his good fortune, Apte wrote.
Under the order, Cabrera must give Rodriguez $20,000 per month in unallocated support, which means she can spend the money however she wants.
Additionally, he must pay for specific expenses, such as private school, medical care and extracurricular activities.
Cabrera also must provide: annual passes to Walt Disney World and other local amusements; a $5 million life insurance policy with both children named as beneficiaries until the youngest one turns 18; a check to pay off the mortgage of Rodriguezs nearly $1 million house; and back child support of nearly $90,000.
A final hearing on the order, which Cabrera can appeal, is scheduled for April 30.
Cabrera, 36, is about halfway through an eight-year, $248 million contract extension he signed in 2014.
Spotrac estimated his career earnings to date at nearly $277 million.
He will make $30 million this season.
Field Level Media
The 2019 quarterback class has a consensus top four, but all four bring wildly different styles, skill sets, strengths, weaknesses and opinions from evaluators.
FILE PHOTO: Mar 13, 2019; Norman, OK, USA; Oklahoma quarterback Kyler Murray participates in positional workouts during pro day at the Everest Indoor Training Center at the University of Oklahoma.
Mandatory Credit: Jerome Miron-USA TODAY Sports Lets dig into the wows and the red flags for each, starting with the likely first overall pick.
Kyler Murray, Oklahoma Wow: Twitchiness as a thrower His explosiveness as a runner is obvious, but Murrays athleticism also translates seamlessly to his throwing ability.
That sounds natural but is far from a given just ask Blake Bortles or Paxton Lynch.
His sharp, active feet stay under him for balance but are always ready to move and reset for a new platform.
Likewise, his arm is a whip that lashes out from any angle with a snappy release.
Together, these tools help him throw extremely quickly from myriad positions with precision.
On the 10-yard touchdown against UCLA, Murray threw with just enough touch to get over the defensive line and the linebacker but also with enough zip to beat the cornerback.
The ball placement was perfect.
His tape is littered with throws like this.
Murrays twitchiness also helps him stay on schedule even when forced to move early.
On long touchdowns against Iowa State and Alabama, he had to move immediately after his play-fake but quickly reset from an unnatural platform to flick a flawless deep ball.
In both cases, he kept the play on time despite immediate pressure had he taken any longer, like most QBs would, his receiver would be too far downfield to hit in stride.
More than ever before, NFL schemers excel at creating simple reads and open targets for their quarterbacks.
In turn, getting the ball from Point A to Point B with zippy precision even amid adverse conditions is a tremendously valuable skill.
Red flag: Inconsistent field vision and pocket movement Murrays hair trigger is important, because he is often a beat late to identify open receivers (and sometimes overlooks them entirely).
His eyes arent as quick as predecessor Baker Mayfields, and they pinball at times instead of reading smoothly through a progression.
Whether because of his short stature, Murray fails to see open receivers now and then.
Linked to inconsistent vision is a lack of polished pocket movement.
Leaning on his athleticism, Murray often defaults to juke-and-escape mode dropping his eyes at times upon seeing/feeling pressure, rather than stepping up or sliding.
That instinct can pay off with big plays, but it cuts both ways.
Murray will overreact to perceived pressure at times and rush unnecessarily, as seen on a third-and-8 against Baylor and his lost fumble against Texas.
On the former, he scanned right past his running back wide open up the seam against an overmatched linebacker and an open receiver near the sideline.
He scrambled and took a hit short of the sticks.
Against Texas, Murray juked himself into pressure while holding the ball loosely with one hand (a consistent tendency), creating his own fumble despite no rusher threatening until after he moved.
On third-and-11 against Alabama, Murray did a better job stepping up calmly, but his head bounced from left to right to left and back right again.
He failed to spot a coverage bust to his left or anticipate a crossing route opening from left to right before he was sacked.
These arent all easy plays to make, but they highlight issues that will be exposed more often in the NFL.
Murray had mostly terrific protection at Oklahoma, and the offense featured several half-roll concepts that moved the pocket slightly, slowing down opposing rushers.
If placed behind a porous offensive line early in the NFL, Murray will avoid some sacks and create big plays.
But it also could exacerbate these issues, encouraging him to abandon reads and escape rather than refining his pocket movement and vision.
Dwayne Haskins, Ohio State Wow: Mental processing and field vision A redshirt sophomore and one-year starter, Haskins lack of experience belies his advanced mental grasp of the game.
Ohio State coordinator (now head coach) Ryan Day put a heavy burden on Haskins, shifting to more of a pro-style scheme with full-field progressions and asking him to set protections and change plays at the line of scrimmage.
Haskins rewarded him handsomely, showing quick eyes and processing, and finding targets late in the progression at a rate rarely seen from college quarterbacks.
These are high-level plays on obvious passing downs that many current NFL quarterbacks dont make with regularity, but Haskins did so throughout 2018 and even more frequently late in the year.
The throw against Michigan State went to his fourth read, a backside dig, with perfect ball placement despite late pressure on second-and-14.
On third-and-7 against Northwestern, he stepped up smoothly from edge pressure with both hands on the ball before hitting his third read, throwing over a dropping D-lineman but with zip to beat the closing linebacker.
His touchdown against Washington was another fourth read.
Haskins quickly eliminated covered routes to his right, scanned left moving his feet with his eyes by sliding and stepping up and layered a throw to the backside post on third-and-8.
(Also notice, he signaled pre-snap to his slot receiver to run a hot route if the Huskies blitzed.)
Haskins also regularly uses subtle pump fakes and shoulder rolls to manipulate coverage, another high-level ability that some QBs never learn.
Recent history tells us the very best quarterbacks Brady, Manning, Brees win primarily with their minds.
In just 14 career starts, Haskins has clearly shown the ability to do that.
Red flag: Response to pressure and inconsistent accuracy Let your 16-year-old drive a Lamborghini long enough and hes eventually going to crash it.
Days pro-style offense gave Haskins tremendous freedom, but it also allowed opponents to get more creative with blitzes, knowing they had time to get home as the quarterback went through full-field reads.
TCU was the first to really stress Haskins with pressure, but he mostly responded well.
Penn State employed a similar blueprint with greater effectiveness, and Purdue and Michigan State followed suit, making Haskins uncomfortable and forcing misses or rushed decisions.
Facing repeated pressure in those games, Haskins accuracy went missing for stretches, even amid a clean pocket at times.
His feet got lazy a tendency he often overcomes with his arm and his delivery rushed, leading to ugly misses.
At times, Haskins broke down in the pocket before pressure arrived and dropped his eyes to scramble, like against Penn State.
These issues are common for quarterbacks when pressured repeatedly and outside of those poor stretches, Haskins accuracy was mostly razor sharp but he will have to adapt to minimize negative stretches.
Whoever drafts Haskins will hope he improves at setting protections and finding answers against blitzes, trusting his mental acuity to win out as he gains experience.
He also must sharpen his footwork and maintain it when pressured.
If not, Haskins coaches will be forced to protect him more through scheme in other words, keep the Lamborghini off the highway.
Nobody wants that.
Drew Lock, Missouri Wow: Arm talent and release Youve heard about Locks cannon by now, but his flexibility and speedy release are as valuable if not more so than his pure arm strength.
He overuses the sidearm slot, but Lock can whip the ball from funky arm angles like few outside of Patrick Mahomes, Aaron Rodgers or Matthew Stafford.
Combined with a lightning release, he can be deadly.
Most of those throws were on-schedule to the first or second read, but as he showed on third-and-12 against Oklahoma State, Lock can occasionally conjure brilliance from nothing late in the down.
His quick delivery is also a weapon against blitzing defenses.
A four-year starter, Lock earned the authority to audible at the line and used quick flicks to beat the rush for third-down conversions or explosive gains.
Notice against Florida how Lock saw the nickel cornerback communicating with the safety, anticipated blitz and signaled for his slot wideout to run a quick hitch.
(The wideout nearly ruined the play twice, by false starting no call and then bobbling the throw.)
Given Locks tools and level of experience, its no surprise NFL coaches want to work with him.
Red flag: Inconsistent field vision and skittish pocket movement However, Lock doesnt read the field as sharply as youd expect from a four-year starter.
While he occasionally works deep into a progression, his offenses were built on either-or reads from 2015-17.
Missouris attack expanded in 2018, but Lock produced shaky results, and he never fully mastered some simple designs.
Even when presented open receivers on basic reads, Lock failed to pull the trigger at times.
On third-and-6 against Arkansas (in 2017), Missouris post/wheel concept worked exactly as intended, springing the tight end the primary read wide open.
Lock stared at it but didnt throw, instead scrambling into pressure (and committing intentional grounding).
On third-and-4 against Alabama, Missouri ran a mesh concept with a wideout screening for the running back on intersecting crossers.
The back came wide open, but Lock stared at the wideout (covered by three Tide defenders) and never saw the back.
Tied to Locks inconsistent vision and perhaps more worrisome is an extreme lack of pocket toughness.
Thats not to say Lock wont take big hits; he makes some great throws on tape while getting clobbered.
But he shows an extreme aversion to pressure, which short-circuits his reads and promotes dangerously undisciplined pocket movement.
Lock drifts and fades with alarming frequency, relying on back-foot throws, even when pressure is not close.
He rarely showed the inclination to step up or slide within the pocket.
That wont fly in the NFL, where quarterbacks must step up to prevent easy angles for pass rushers.
By drifting deeper, Lock repeatedly gave edge rushers a shorter corner to turn, hanging his offensive line out to dry.
Against Oklahoma State, he broke a free blitzers attempted sack, but he should have stepped into a clean pocket much earlier, giving that rusher a more difficult path.
Lock did make progress as a senior, his first year in a remotely pro-style offense, but he has a long way to go.
Given how difficult it is to teach and improve field reading and pocket toughness, he carries major risk.
Daniel Jones, Duke Wow: Pocket movement and toughness A complete 180 from Lock, Jones has pocket toughness in spades.
Yes, Jones has clearly learned from QB guru David Cutcliffe to navigate the pocket with proper mechanics (active feet, two hands on the ball, eyes downfield, etc.).
At the same time, he also has something you cant teach a willingness to sacrifice his body to maximize every play.
With a weak supporting cast at Duke, Jones faced tons of pressure: unblocked, off the edge, through the middle, and sometimes all of the above.
He was willing to not only take hits, but also to move into more exposed positions seeking the best throwing platform.
The deep throw against Virginia Tech came less than three minutes into his first game back from a broken collarbone.
Jones shuffled slightly left from one rusher and stepped into another, getting slammed by both, but his receiver failed to secure a gorgeous deep ball.
On third-and-13 against Miami, Jones saw the slot blitzer come free but didnt let it affect his mechanics.
He stepped up quickly and fired a dart for a first down.
On third-and-8 against Temple, he again stepped into a hit to get enough juice on a sideline throw for a conversion.
Red flag: Decision making The play against Temple, however, also hints at a concern about Jones: He writes too many checks his arm cant cash.
Jones arm strength isnt poor, but its closer to average than good, and his delivery can border on being too methodical.
He flashes a slight windup and rarely makes the quick-flick, multi-platform deliveries these other three quarterbacks do regularly.
Thats OK some NFL starters have merely decent arm talent but Jones too often plays with the recklessness of a stronger-armed passer.
The throw against Temple wasnt far from being intercepted, and his tape shows too many ghastly gambles.
As a Duke product working under Cutcliffe with connections to the Manning brothers, Jones often gets labeled as a cerebral signal-caller who dices defenses up mentally.
But decisions like these show he has a long way to go.
While he works deep into progressions and makes sound pre-snap decisions at times, its difficult to excuse late-down-the-middle throws like the one against Virginia Tech (which three different defenders could have intercepted).
Slideshow (3 Images) The dropped pick near the sideline vs. the Hokies is even more concerning.
On a very simple two-man route concept, the out route opened immediately, but Jones stared and waited.
His receiver reached the numbers before he began his throwing motion, late enough for the cornerback to close 5-plus yards of separation.
(The throw was also too far inside).
Unless he strengthens his arm or quickens his release, Jones must play more conservatively to survive in the NFL.
Compensating for less-than-ideal tools requires maximizing mental precision and minimizing poor decisions.
David DeChant, Field Level Media
The Boston Celtics completed a four-game sweep of the Indiana Pacers in the first round of the Eastern Conference playoffs Sunday afternoon, using key baskets from Marcus Morris and Gordon Hayward to hold on for a 110-106 victory in Indianapolis.
Apr 21, 2019; Indianapolis, IN, USA; Boston Celtics forward Gordon Hayward (20) dunks the ball past Indiana Pacers center Myles Turner (33) during the third quarter of game four of the first round of the 2019 NBA Playoffs at Bankers Life Fieldhouse.
Mandatory Credit: Brian Spurlock-USA TODAY Sports The fourth-seeded Celtics advance to the Eastern Conference semifinals, where they will face the winner of the Milwaukee-Detroit series.
Meanwhile, the loss ended Indianas season in the first round of the playoffs for the third consecutive year.
The Pacers, who also were swept by Cleveland in 2017, took the Cavaliers to a Game 7 in the opening round last year.
The fourth quarter featured four ties, the last of which occurred at 82-all when Jayson Tatum made the first of two free throws with 6:45 remaining after a flagrant foul on Cory Joseph.
Warriors 113, Clippers 105 Kevin Durant scored 33 points and visiting Golden State held on to beat Los Angeles in Game 4 of a Western Conference first-round series.
After winning both games in Los Angeles, the Warriors own a 3-1 series lead heading to Game 5 on Wednesday night in Oakland, Calif. Klay Thompson scored 27 of his 32 points in the first half for the Warriors.
Stephen Curry went 3-for-14, including 1-for-9 from 3-point range, finishing with 12 points, 10 rebounds and seven assists.
Shai Gilgeous-Alexander scored a season-high 25 points for the Clippers.
Raptors 107, Magic 85 Kawhi Leonard scored 34 points 12 in the third quarter as visiting Toronto defeated Orlando to take a 3-1 lead in the first-round playoff series.
The Raptors can clinch the best-of-seven series Tuesday by winning Game 5 in Toronto.
Pascal Siakam added 16 points for Toronto, while Norman Powell had 16 points and Serge Ibaka had 13 points and gathered eight rebounds.
Kyle Lowry contributed nine points and nine assists.
Aaron Gordon scored 25 points and had seven rebounds for the Magic.
Evan Fournier added 19 points, while Nikola Vucevic scored 11 points.
Trail Blazers 111, Thunder 98 C.J.
McCollum scored 27 points and Damian Lillard added 24 as visiting Portland beat Oklahoma City.
Slideshow (3 Images) The win gave the Blazers a 3-1 lead in their Western Conference playoff series.
Portland has a chance to finish off the series at home Tuesday.
The win snapped an eight-game road playoff losing streak for the Blazers and gave the road teams an 8-0 record over the weekend in the NBA playoffs.
Field Level Media
Josh Donaldson homered in his first two at-bats, and Max Fried tossed 6 1/3 strong innings as the visiting Atlanta Braves breezed to an 11-5 rout of the Cleveland Indians on Sunday night.
Apr 21, 2019; Cleveland, OH, USA; Atlanta Braves third baseman Josh Donaldson (20) hits a home run during the first inning against the Cleveland Indians at Progressive Field.
Mandatory Credit: Ken Blaze-USA TODAY Sports Donaldson drove in four runs, while Freddie Freeman had a pair of RBI singles to highlight his three-hit performance.
Ozzie Albies had a two-run single and joined Freeman in scoring twice for the Braves, who saw each member of the starting lineup record at least one of the teams 16 hits.
Donaldson provided the fireworks by depositing a 1-1 slider from starter Shane Bieber (2-1) over the wall in center field for a solo homer in the first inning.
The 2015 American League Most Valuable Player wasnt done, launching a 1-2 fastball from Bieber deep into the bleachers in left field for a three-run shot in the second inning.
Rangers 11, Astros 10 Joey Gallo capped a prolific weekend with his third consecutive multi-hit game, and host Texas claimed the rubber match of its three-game series with Houston.
After slugging home runs in each of the first two games, Gallo finished 2-for-3 with five RBIs and delivered a two-run triple that ignited Texas three-run first inning against Astros right-hander Collin McHugh.
Gallo also hit a sacrifice fly in the Rangers four-run third inning and, after the Astros chased Texas right-hander Shelby Miller with a five-run sixth, Gallo added a run-scoring single in the bottom of the sixth.
Cubs 2, Diamondbacks 1 David Bote ripped a game-ending single to right-center field in the bottom of the ninth inning to score Javier Baez and lift Chicago to a 2-1 victory over visiting Arizona.
Teammates mobbed Bote near first base after the hit, which gave the Cubs a series win and marked their fifth victory in the past six games.
Baez finished 2-for-3 with a double, a triple, an RBI and the game-winning run.
Baez set the stage for the dramatic win when he led off the ninth with a double down the right field line.
He advanced to third base after Diamondbacks right fielder Adam Jones bobbled the ball in the grass.
Yankees 7, Royals 6 (10) Austin Romine hit a game-winning single with one out in the bottom of the 10th inning as host New York beat Kansas City.
Mike Tauchman and Gio Urshela opened the inning by drawing walks from Jake Diekman (0-1), who was replaced by Ian Kennedy.
After the runners were sacrificed to second and third by pinch hitter Thairo Estrada, Romine won by lifting a fly ball over center fielder Billy Hamiltons head.
Before the wild sequences of the late innings, the Yankees carried a 5-0 lead into the eighth behind the dominance of left-hander James Paxton and a three-run homer by Clint Frazier.
Kansas City scored six in the eighth before Romines RBI single in the bottom of the eighth tied it.
Dodgers 6, Brewers 5 Cody Bellinger belted his 11th home run with two out in the top of ninth inning to lift Los Angeles to a 6-5 road win over Milwaukee.
Bellinger went 3-for-4 and drove in three runs, hitting the game-winner off Milwaukee reliever Josh Hader (0-2).
He also robbed Christian Yelich of a homer at the wall in the eighth inning.
Kenley Jansen (2-0) pitched 1 1/3 innings and struck out the side in the ninth to earn the win.
Yelich, who leads the majors in homers with 13 and is one shy of tying Albert Pujols and Alex Rodriguez for the most home runs (14) before May 1, went 0-for-2 with two walks.
Red Sox 4, Rays 3 (11) Christian Vazquez hit a tiebreaking sacrifice fly in the top of the 11th inning as Boston edged host Tampa Bay.
Rafael Devers began the 11th with a bloop single, and Michael Chavis, making his first major league start, followed with a walk.
After a Jackie Bradley Jr. bunt advanced both runners, Vazquez lofted a deep fly to center to drive in the game-winning run.
The Red Sox rallied against Rays reliever Jose Alvarado (0-2) for the second straight game.
Cardinals 6, Mets 4 Paul Goldschmidt delivered a two-run single among his two hits as host St. Louis topped New York.
Dexter Fowler and Marcell Ozuna each had a run-scoring double and Kolten Wong added an RBI single for the Cardinals, who have scored at least four runs in each game during their 7-1 surge at home.
Dakota Hudson (1-1) overcame three solo homers and five hits total in five innings to record his first career win as a starter.
Blue Jays 5, Athletics 4 Justin Smoak hit his second home run in two days as Toronto completed a three-game sweep of host Oakland.
Brandon Drury capped a big series with a double and a single for the Blue Jays, who completed a 6-1 trip that began with three wins in four games at Minnesota.
The As have lost five of six.
Padres 4, Reds 3 Austin Hedges homered to help host San Diego defeat Cincinnati and avoid a four-game sweep.
The Padres had five straight hits and six in the inning against Reds starter and loser Tyler Mahle (0-2), who allowed four runs on seven hits with nine strikeouts in six innings.
Mahle retired the last 10 Padres he faced.
Left-hander Joey Lucchesi (3-2) allowed one run on five hits and two walks with eight strikeouts in 5 2/3 innings to earn the win.
Angels 8, Mariners 6 Los Angeles clubbed four homers and held off visiting Seattle for the first time in six tries this season.
Tommy La Stella hit two homers, and Brian Goodwin and Kevan Smith each hit one for Los Angeles.
In all, the Angels had 11 hits, including two doubles by Mike Trout.
Mariners starter Mike Leake (2-2), who yielded three homers, allowed four runs on six hits and two walks in six innings.
Nationals 5, Marlins 0 Stephen Strasburg pitched eight scoreless innings, and Ryan Zimmerman slugged two homers as Washington won at Miami.
The last-place Marlins failed to get their first three-game sweep since September of 2017 but still won their first series this year.
Strasburg (2-1) improved to 18-7 in his career against Miami.
He passed Gio Gonzalez as the Nationals career leader in innings pitched.
Rockies 4, Phillies 1 Jon Gray pitched six shutout innings, and Colorado beat visiting Philadelphia.
Tony Wolters had two hits, including a two-run double for the Rockies, who have won six of seven.
Colorados Charlie Blackmon had a triple and two singles to finish 10-for-18 in the series.
Twins 4, Orioles 3 Willians Astudillo drove in two runs, and starter Kyle Gibson threw six solid innings as visiting Minnesota defeated Baltimore.
Astudillo had an RBI double plus a sacrifice fly as the Twins took a 2-0 lead in the first inning and never trailed.
The victory let Minnesota complete a sweep of the three-game weekend series in Baltimore.
Gibson (1-0) gave up two runs on five hits in six innings.
Giants 3, Pirates 2 Buster Poseys three-run home run in the fifth inning lifted visiting San Francisco over Pittsburgh, ending a four-game skid.
San Francisco starter Dereck Rodriguez (3-2) gave up two runs and three hits in 5 2/3 innings, with one walk and four strikeouts.
He also singled and scored a run.
Josh Bell hit a two-run homer for Pittsburgh.
Tigers 4, White Sox 3 Daniel Norris tossed five scoreless innings in his first start this season, Gordon Beckham hit a solo homer and host Detroit edged Chicago.
Slideshow (14 Images) Norris (1-0) allowed two hits and struck out six.
Shane Greene recorded his 10th save by getting the last three outs, including two strikeouts.
White Sox starter Reynaldo Lopez (1-3) gave up three runs (two earned) and seven hits in six innings while striking out eight.
Field Level Media
Brooklyn Nets general manager Sean Marks was suspended one game without pay and fined $25,000 on Sunday for entering the officials locker room after Saturdays Game 4 of the first-round series with the Philadelphia 76ers.
Apr 18, 2019; Brooklyn, NY, USA; Brooklyn Nets forward Jared Dudley (6) and head coach Kenny Atkinson argue with official James Capers (19) in the third quarter in game three of the first round of the 2019 NBA Playoffs at Barclays Center.
Mandatory Credit: Wendell Cruz-USA TODAY Sports The announcement by Byron Spruell, president of NBA league operations, didnt divulge what occurred after Marks entered the room following Brooklyns 112-108 loss.
But the contest was emotionally charged and included a ruckus in which Jared Dudley of the Nets and Jimmy Butler of the 76ers were ejected.
Nets coach Kenny Atkinson was upset following the contest that there wasnt a call on Philadelphias Tobias Harris for grabbing Brooklyns Jarrett Allen with 4.8 seconds left in regulation as his club looked for a tying or winning shot while trailing by two.
On Sunday, the NBA agreed with Atkinsons contention, acknowledging that Harris should have been called for fouling Allen.
Marks will serve the suspension on Tuesday when the Nets visit the 76ers in Game 5.
The NBA fined Dudley and Butler in the wake of the altercation involving several players in the third quarter of Saturdays first-round NBA playoff game in Brooklyn.
Dudley, who shoved Philadelphias Joel Embiid after Embiid made a hard foul on Allen, was fined $25,000, according to Kiki VanDeWeghe, the leagues vice president of basketball operations.
Butler, who then shoved Dudley, was fined $15,000 for escalating the situation.
The scuffle then spilled over into the stands, with Philadelphias Ben Simmons and Dudley as lead combatants.
San Antonio Spurs guard DeMar DeRozan was fined $25,000 for his ball-tossing effort during Saturdays 117-103 loss to the Denver Nuggets.
VanDeWeghe said in announcing the fine that DeRozan was disciplined for recklessly throwing the basketball toward a game official and into the spectator stands.
DeRozan was given a technical foul and was ejected after the incident with 5:01 remaining in the contest.
DeRozan was called for an offensive foul after charging into Denver guard Gary Harris.
He then leaped in the air and spun and sent the ball flying to the left of Foster.
The Cleveland Cavaliers were quick to halt any talk that they have interest in Rick Pitino as a candidate for their vacant head coaching position, cleveland.com reported.
The report, citing an unnamed source, said the Cavaliers have had no conversations with Pitino and are respectfully not interested in him at all.
Veteran NBA reporter Peter Vecsey reported Saturday that Cavaliers chairman Dan Gilbert had talked to the longtime coach about the vacancy.
Pitino, who also was the head coach of the New York Knicks (1987-89) and the Boston Celtics (1997-2001), has been coaching in Greece since last year.
Dirk Nowitzkis NBA career might have ended earlier this month, but he still managed to score more points this weekend with a thank-you letter he penned to Dallas Mavericks fans.
Slideshow (4 Images) The 2011 NBA Finals MVP and 14-time All-Star posted the letter in an ad he took out in the Dallas Morning News, wrapping up his 21-year career into 21 heart-felt lines that read like a poem.
Among the more touching lines: From the moment I arrived in Dallas riding on this amazing roller coaster, you lifted me, supported me, pushed me to work harder, and, This is THANK YOU Mavs fans, from the bottom of my heart, for taking in a kid from Wurzburg and making me one of your own.
Field Level Media
Right fielder Aaron Judge became the 13th New York Yankees player to hit the injured list as the team officially took the slugger out of action for at least 10 days on Sunday with a left oblique strain.
FILE PHOTO - Apr 17, 2019; Bronx, NY, USA; New York Yankees right fielder Aaron Judge (99) looks on prior to taking on the Boston Red Sox at Yankee Stadium.
Mandatory Credit: Adam Hunger-USA TODAY Sports The Yankees recalled infielder Thairo Estrada to take Judges place on the roster.
Judge injured himself on a swing in the sixth inning of Saturdays 9-2 victory over the Kansas City Royals.
He hit a home run earlier in the game, his fifth of the season.
Yankees manager Aaron Boone called it a significant oblique strain, but no timetable has been given for Judges return.
Toronto Blue Jays right-hander Matt Shoemaker will miss the rest of the season because of a torn left ACL, according to multiple reports.
Shoemaker, 32, was off to a terrific start this season with a 3-0 record and a 1.57 ERA in five games.
He injured his knee on a freak play Saturday while chasing after the Oakland Athletics Matt Chapman in a rundown.
It was the latest setback for the veteran, who made only seven starts with the Los Angeles Angels last season because of a forearm strain.
He also fractured his skull in 2016 when a line drive hit him in the head.
The Tampa Bay Rays made a flurry of roster moves, including placing outfielder Austin Meadows on the 10-day injured list with a sprained right thumb.
Meadows was injured on a slide into third base while hitting a triple in the seventh inning of Saturdays game against the Red Sox.
He was replaced on the roster by infielder Joey Wendle, who was activated from the IL amid his recovery from a strained left hamstring.
The Rays also placed right-handed reliever Hunter Wood on the paternity list, while sending right-hander Jake Faria to Triple-A Durham.
Right-hander Emilio Pagan was recalled from Durham, as was utility man Andrew Velazquez.
Milwaukee Brewers second baseman Mike Moustakas was out of the lineup against the Los Angeles Dodgers after X-rays uncovered a fracture at the tip of his right ring finger.
The Brewers elected not to put the veteran on the injured list just yet, considering him day-to-day.
He is pretty sore today, but it doesnt change the timeframe for him, manager Craig Counsell said.
Well see how it responds.
Its really a (pain-)tolerant thing, but if its going to be really sore and we have to give him 10 days, we will.
Field Level Media
Brooklyn Nets general manager Sean Marks has been suspended one game without pay and fined $25,000 for entering the officials locker room after Saturdays Game 4 of the first-round series with the Philadelphia 76ers.
Marks will serve the suspension on Tuesday when the Nets visit the 76ers in Game 5.
The announcement by Byron Spruell, president of NBA league operations, didnt divulge what occurred after Marks entered the room following Brooklyns 112-108 loss.
But the contest was emotionally charged and included a ruckus in which Jared Dudley of the Nets and Jimmy Butler of the 76ers were ejected.
Nets coach Kenny Atkinson was upset following the contest that there wasnt a call on Philadelphias Tobias Harris for grabbing Brooklyns Jarrett Allen with 4.8 seconds left in regulation as his club looked for a tying or winning shot while trailing by two.
There was a clear wrap by Tobias Harris on the roll, Atkinson said in the postgame press conference, pointing out the league cited an emphasis on such fouls were to be called.
How that all of a sudden does not become a foul on a wrap, I just dont understand.
I looked at the clip 10 times, its a clear wrap.
On Sunday, the NBA agreed with Atkinsons contention, acknowledging that Harris should have been called for fouling Allen.
The leagues Last Two Minute Report also said Nets guard Spencer Dinwiddie should have been called for a carry.
Brooklyn finished that possession with a 3-pointer by DAngelo Russell, after Dinwiddie missed a layup and Allen grabbed an offensive rebound.
The league also announced fines of $25,000 for Dudley and $15,000 for Butler for their roles in escalating the third-quarter fracas, which spilled into the stands.
Philadelphia leads the best-of-seven series, 3-1.
Field Level Media
(Reuters) - Taiwans Pan Cheng-tsung held steady when it counted and won his first PGA Tour tournament with a one-stroke victory over Matt Kuchar as world number one Dustin Johnson stumbled badly on the back nine at the RBC Heritage in South Carolina on Sunday.
Apr 21, 2019; Hilton Head, SC, USA; C.T.
Pan poses with the RBC Heritage trophy after winning the 51st RBC Heritage golf tournament at Harbour Town Golf Links.
Mandatory Credit: Joshua S. Kelly-USA TODAY Sports Pan, who goes by the initials C.T., collected a birdie and two pars on his last three holes to shoot a four-under par 67 and end a tense final round at 12-under 272.
Kuchar, finishing ahead of Pan, used a birdie at the last to also shoot 67 and waited as Pan, ranked 113 in the world, held steady at the end.
Patrick Cantlay (69), Scott Piercy (69) and Irelands Shane Lowry (70) tied for third at 10-under.
Its something when I was younger I always dreamed of.
Watched Tiger (Woods) playing growing up, the 27-year-old Pan told CBS television after the victory.
Thats why I came to the U.S., thats why I went to college to go through all the necessary steps to be here.
I am very, very happy that I finally did it.
Pan took the lead with a nine-foot birdie, his fifth of the round, at the 16th after a bogey at the 15th.
I knew I needed two more birdies coming in to make sure I had the W, the former University of Washington golfer said.
I hit good shots on 16, and 17 and 18 I hit really good shots.
Victory, however, was not assured until Cantlay, Piercy and first and second-round leader Lowry completed play.
The number one ranked amateur for part of 2013 stayed ready for a possible playoff by hitting balls on the practice green, finally raising his arms triumphantly after being told he had won.
Its still really hard for me to believe, said Pan, who had won twice on the PGA Tour Canada in 2015 and finished second twice in PGA Tour events, including last years Wyndham Championship.
Kuchar, a winner at Hilton Head in 2014, made a run at another title with three birdies in five holes before a bogey at the seventh.
He regrouped for birdies at 13 and 15 before a another bogey at 17.
It was so much fun that back nine, said Kuchar, who ended his round with a sixth birdie.
Slideshow (9 Images) To have a chance, to be playing some good golf, make a handful of birdies, and see how much I could do out there sure was fun.
Johnson had begun the round with a one-stroke lead but had three bogeys and two double bogeys to drop seven shots in a five hole stretch on the back nine at Harbour Town Golf Links on Hilton Head Island.
He finished with a six-over 77 to tie for 28th.
A Dallas man won a bet with his pregnant fiance to name his son Tiger after Tiger Woods won The Masters over the weekend.
(Published Friday, April 19, 2019) Dallas Man Wins Bet to Name His Son Tiger Thanks to The Masters Win A Dallas man is still riding high over Tiger Woods's victory at The Masters even more than you might expect.
He bet his pregnant fianc he could name his son Tiger if Tiger won the tournament.
Trey Little is a die-hard Tiger Woods fan.
He watched Tiger play in person in February with his fianc Denise Coleman by his side.
"So she got to see kind of, in person, how much I got excited about it and how big of a deal it was for me," Little explained.
Sri Lanka Gov't Was Warned About Bombing Threats: Officials An extremist group had threatened bombings in Sri Lanka before explosions killed more than 250 people there on Easter Sunday, according to the health minister.
he said intergovernmental strife was to blame for the lack of response.
(Published Monday, April 22, 2019) Little is also a fan of the sport.
He used a golf ball to reveal his baby's gender in front of his family in McKinney last month.
"Exploded blue, went nuts, that's where it kind of really kicked off," Little said.
Before Tiger teed off at The Masters last Thursday, Little put proof of his passion on paper.
He typed up a contract stating, "If Tiger Woods wins the masters this week, I (father) get to have the option of naming our son (coming September 2019) Tiger Little."
Little said he presented the contract to Coleman at work.
"She certainly got a kick out of it," Little said, adding his fianc thought it was a safe bet.
They both signed the contract.
Then Sunday, Tiger sank the winning shot.
"It was more to me the excitement of, 'oh my gosh, Tiger Woods really just won this tournament' before it clicked, like, 'this has my baby's name riding on it too,'" Little recalled.
Coleman was unavailable to meet for our interview but we had to ask, is she on board, and do they plan to follow through?
"Absolutely.
It's going to happen," Little said.
"From the start, whenever I kind of threw out baby Tiger, little Tiger when we found out we were pregnant, she went along with it the whole time."
Tiger Juilan Little is due in September.
Aaron Judge, the young star at the heart of the Yankees' lineup, appears headed to an increasingly long injured list for the beleaguered team.
Judge hurt himself swinging in Saturday's game against Kansas City and is likely to be out for some period of time, manager Aaron Boone told a post-game news conference.
Boone said it was a left oblique injury and that Judge went to the hospital for an MRI to diagnose the severity.
It was the latest setback for the 10-10 Yankees, who sit four games back of the Tampa Bay Rays in the AL East.
The team already has a dozen players out hurt, and could scarcely spare Judge.
If he goes out, it would mean six of the team's nine Opening Day starters would be on the injured list.
The team tweeted late Saturday that infielder Thairo Estrada would be recalled from AAA Scranton/Wilkes-Barre to replace Judge on the roster Sunday.
Watch the Giants preseason games live here Thursday, Aug. 8 at 7 p.m. (Jets), Friday, Aug. 16 at 7:30 p.m. (Bears), Thursday, Aug. 22 at 7 p.m. (Bengals) and Thursday, Aug. 29 at 7:30 p.m. (Patriots).
(Note: Video player will be black until gametime, and you will have to be physically located in the New York television market to watch the stream.)
The 123rd Boston Marathon kicked off Monday, with many participants around the world flocking to the Hub for the iconic event.
This year, more than 30,000 participants are expected for the marathon.
About 1 million people in total are anticipated to attend the race.
Participants and spectators aren't letting Boston's gloomy weather get them down.
Check out some photos at the scene.
People from across the world are arriving in Boston ahead of the city's 123rd marathon.
(Published Saturday, April 13, 2019) As runners lined up to pick up their bibs for the Boston Marathon, many were thinking about the race they've prepared for so long.
"This is the Mecca of running, and this is what everybody strives for, works hard all year long to have this.
It's a blessing, it's a pure blessing," said Laura Fenster of Fresno, California.
Runners and their families and friends enjoyed the nice weather on Saturday, many of them heading to the Finish Line for pictures.
"The weather is amazing.
This morning it was raining, now it's the sunshine.
It's great.
Boston is amazing," said Thais Moura of Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Moura, who is in town from South America, said this is a dream come true.
"I have been pursuing my qualifying time, and I did that.
And I'm going to be running Monday.
I have goose bumps now...
I have no words for that," she said.
There are many first-timers in town, including Maria Payne from San Antonio, Texas.
She says she's just trying to enjoy the moment.
"Look at this city.
This city is fantastic, every store... the flowers in the windows.
I think Boston does this right," she said.
Ana Croger, of Brisbane, Australia, is in Boston for the first time to run the marathon.
"I've been to a Red Sox game, a city tour, I've been to the Expo, it's been crazy," Croger said.
Kathy Linenberger, of San Diego, California, is also visiting Boston for the first time to run in the marathon.
"I've been waiting many, many years to come to Boston and run the marathon," Linenberger said.
"This is my first time, I'm just thrilled."
Linenberger is thrilled, and thinking about the weather.
"We were at the 5K this morning," she said.
"We tested out our rain jackets.
We came prepared.
I have 55 layers at least, 16 ponchos, rubber gloves.
We've got everything because we knew if we brought all that, it wouldn't rain."
The weather on Marathon Monday is one of the hot topics.
After last year's wind-swept rain and cold temperatures, this year's race could be gloomy as well.
"I did it last year, so there's absolutely nothing nature can send us that's worse than last year," Chris Tobias, of Baltimore, Maryland, said.
Officials are also preparing for the marathon, and the possibility of bad weather.
"The uncontrollable is always out there," said Sean Quirk, head coach of the Boston Cannons.
"Last year was really tough with the weather, so expecting it to be a little bit better this year hopefully."
There are some extra precautions race organizers have announced because of the potential for rough weather, including no delay this year between Waves 3 and 4.
That's to lessen the amount of time Wave 4 runners have to wait in the Athlete's Village before they begin.
And along the course, there will be extra gear and facilities to help runners and volunteers who may be struggling.
But there's no talk of postponing the race.
"The marathon is run on Patriots Day, or it's not run," said Tom Grilk, CEO of the Boston Athletic Association.
There will be a massive amount of security in place, but there are no credible threats to the event.
"We know what happened before," said Boston Police Commissioner William Gross.
"Let's be each other's eyes and ears.
This is our city, our marathon, let's look out for each other."
Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills was arrested outside a Washington, D.C., nightclub early Saturday morning following a fight with Washington Wizards player Devin Robinson, according to a police report.
Mills and Robinson were in the middle of a verbal argument that turned into a fight on the sidewalk next to the Opera Night Club shortly before 3 a.m., according to an arrest report by the Metropolitan Police Department.
Mills was arrested for disorderly affray, which is a charge for public fighting.
Robinson was also arrested for disorderly affray and taken to Sibley Hospital for treatment of his injuries.
The Eagles said they were aware of the incident and were continuing to gather more information.
The Wizards said they were "disappointed" in Robinson's actions.
"We will not extend him a qualifying offer for the 2019-20 season," the team said in a statement.
Metta World Peace during his time with the Los Angeles Lakers in 2017.
What to Know Metta World Peace tweeted he would love to be a head coach at St. John's University The New York City native played basketball for the college in the 90s and was known as Ron Artest He led the Red Storm to the Elite 8 in 1999, before he was drafted 16th overall to the Chicago Bulls St. John's needs a new basketball coach, and a familiar face would love to be it.
Metta World Peace tweeted late Wednesday that he would love to be a head coach at the university.
He added that Chris Mullin and his staff did a great job.
I was also very excited about the team.
The New York City native played college basketball for the college in the 90s and was known as Ron Artest.
He led the Red Storm to the Elite 8 in 1999, before he was drafted 16th overall to the Chicago Bulls.
He last played in the NBA in 2017.
The Red Storm earned a bid in the 2019 NCAA Tournament, but lost its play-in game 74-65 to Arizona State.
Afterwards, Mullin announced he was stepping down.
Top Sports Photos: Degefa, Cherono Wins Boston Marathon
RAW: MMA star Conor McGregor is seen smacking a cellphone out of a man's hand and stomping on it outside the Fontainebleau Miami Beach hotel in new footage of the incident that led to his arrest last month.
MMA star Conor McGregor is seen smacking a cellphone out of a man's hand and stomping on it outside the Fontainebleau Miami Beach hotel in new footage of the incident that led to his arrest last month.
The new surveillance footage, released by Miami-Dade prosecutors Wednesday, shows the 30-year-old McGregor among a group of people outside the hotel the morning of March 11, hours before his arrest on strong-arm robbery and criminal mischief charges.
McGregor, wearing white pants and a polo shirt, is seen outside the hotel with his entourage as a few bystanders film him with their cellphones.
McGregor suddenly smacks the phone out of one man's hand, stomps on it, then picks it up and starts to walk away, as he's surrounded by his security.
An arrest report said the man approached McGregor and attempted to take a picture of him while exiting the hotel around 5 a.m. "The defendant slapped the victim's phone out of his hand, causing it to fall to the floor.
The defendant then stomped on the victim's phone several times, damaging it," the report said.
The report said McGregor picked up the 22-year-old man's phone and walked away.
The man told police the phone was valued at $1,000.
Police later located and arrested McGregor, who posted bond and left jail hours later.
McGregor's attorney called the incident a "minor altercation."
"Mr. McGregor appreciates the response of law enforcement and pledges his full cooperation," the attorney's statement read.
Meanwhile, Miami-Dade County court records showed that the owner of the phone, Ahmed Abdirzak, filed a lawsuit seeking more than $15,000, accusing McGregor of battery, assault and intentional infliction of emotional distress.
McGregor's criminal defense attorney called the lawsuit "a quick effort seeking a payday."
Weeks after the arrest, McGregor announced his retirement on social media.
McGregor pleaded guilty last year to disorderly conduct in exchange for community service following a backstage brawl in New York City.
McGregor's probation period for that case ended less than a week prior to the South Florida arrest.
Lawyers for Patriots owner Robert Kraft filed a motion to suppress all video evidence in the solicitation case against him.
Lawyers for New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft have asserted that video evidence capturing him paying for sex at Florida spa could "destroy" his chances at a fair trial.
Kraft's legal team made the assertions in a legal filing released in Palm Beach County, Florida, where the 77-year-old Brookline, Massachusetts, resident is currently facing two misdemeanor counts of soliciting another for prostitution at the Orchids of Asia Day Spa.
"It should be common ground that disclosure of the videos would compromise the privacy interests of the individuals captured on tape in ways that transcend the misdemeanor prosecution at hand," his attorneys wrote in the motion, arguing that if the videos of the alleged illict acts were to be released, it would "destroy any prospect" of Kraft getting a fair trial.
Prosecutors say investigators caught Kraft engaging with an illicit sex act with alleged prostitutes on video at the Orchids of Asia Day Spa on two separate occasions, including once hours before this year's AFC Championship Game.
Kraft has denied engaging in criminal activity and has requested, in a separate motion, that the footage and related evidence be sealed pending further order of the court.
His attorneys have also previously argued that the hidden cameras violated constitutional privacy protections.
The separate motion has been opposed by several news media outlets and would bar prosecutors from the showing the video footage to jurors at trial if successful.
A hearing on the motion is slated for this coming Friday.
Two men will be the first male Patriots cheerleaders since the early 1980s.
For the first time in decades, the New England Patriots will have male cheerleaders on the sidelines this season.
Two men were selected to be on the squad for the upcoming season.
"Walking (into tryouts), I knew people were going to look at me one, because I am over 6 feet tall, and two, because I am a male," said 23-year-old Driss Dallahi of Londonderry, New Hampshire.
Months before his audition in March, Dallahi went to the squad's optional workshop and realized he wasn't alone.
Sri Lanka Gov't Was Warned About Bombing Threats: Officials An extremist group had threatened bombings in Sri Lanka before explosions killed more than 250 people there on Easter Sunday, according to the health minister.
he said intergovernmental strife was to blame for the lack of response.
(Published Monday, April 22, 2019) He met Steven Sonntag.
"I attended that workshop and walked in and heard there was another boy, and so I was immediately looking around trying to find him," said Sonntag, 22, of Colchester, Vermont.
They didn't know each other until they realized they had the same dream.
"We didn't really know the criteria for male cheerleaders auditioning for the New England Patriots, so we kind of created that together in texting back and forth," said Sonntag.
They coordinated colors and styles of clothes to wear so they wouldn't look off or out of place.
The two were the only men that auditioned, and both made the roster, becoming the Patriots' first male cheerleaders since the early 1980s.
"I was excited," said Tracy Sormanti, the Patriots' director of cheerleading, when asked about first seeing the two at tryouts.
"Change is good."
For decades, Sormanti, who was once a cheerleader herself, has led the squad.
"They were not selected because they were the first men to try out," said said.
"They were selected because they actually had the talent."
Sonntag started cheering in high school and created the team at Dean College.
Dallahi just spent the last year and a half in New York City auditioning for jobs, but his biggest break would come back home in New England.
Dallahi's specialties include aerials, which Sormanti said she's brainstorming ways to incorporate into their acts.
Pollen Problems: How Climate Change Supersizes Allergy Season Climate change is changing pollen production patterns and impacting everyone with seasonal allergies.
Take a deeper look at the problem and see what you can do to help fight off the coughing and sneezing.
(Published Monday, April 22, 2019) Both men pointed to the LA Rams' cheerleading team as their inspiration to tryout.
"At least in my lifetime, it was the first time I had seen two men do something like that," said Dallahi.
Last season, Quinton Peron and Napoleon Jinnies gained national attention for becoming the first male cheerleaders to perform at a Super Bowl.
Both Dallahi and Sonntag reached out to them on social media for advice and were warned about what they might hear in the stands or read online.
"If there are people that aren't 100 percent on board today, then maybe somewhere down the line, they are, once we actually get out there," said Dallahi.
Sonntag calls this the new generation of cheerleading in the NFL.
'You Never Get Over It': 20 Years After Columbine Family, friends, teachers and survivors look back twenty years after Columbine, in an anniversary made tougher by a threat from a South Florida high schooler.
(Published Friday, April 19, 2019) "Two genders on the squad is a big step for any team in the NFL, because that's not what people are used to seeing sidelines, so I encourage it to progress even more across the NFL board," said Sonntag.
Now that they're on the team, they will make public appearances in the community serving as ambassadors for the Patriots.
Their first performance will be during the Patriots' preseason.
Los Angeles Lakers President of Basketball Operations and Hall of Fame player, Magic Johnson, announces his resignation before the team's final game of the season.
Earvin "Magic" Johnson dropped a bombshell on Tuesday night ahead of the Los Angeles Lakers' final game of the 2018-19 season when he suddenly announced that he's stepping down as President of Basketball Operations for the Los Angeles Lakers, multiple outlets reported.
"Today, I'm going to step down as the president," Johnson told a stunned crowd of reporters gathered outside the Lakers' locker room.
After saying "I'm free" at one point, Johnson added, "I feel like a monkey has been lifted off my back."
The 59-year-old held nearly an hourlong impromptu press conference where he told reporters that Jeanie Buss, the Lakers' owner, had not been informed of his decision.
"She doesn't know that I'm standing here, because I would be crying like a baby in front of her, even though I'm about to cry right now," a visibly emotional Johnson said.
Johnson, who took over as Lakers president of basketball operations in February of 2017, shared that he felt restrained by his position, citing his desire to be present for Miami Heat guard Dwyane Wade's final game, help mentor tennis player Serena Williams, assist in developing Philadelphia 76ers guard Ben Simmons and share public support for Russell Westbrook achieving a historic with a 20-rebound, 21-assist, 20-point game.
"I had more fun on the other side," Johnson said.
The man who won five NBA titles as a player shared frustrations regarding multiple tampering investigations by the league office and his inability to mentor young men outside the organization.
Johnson said, "I was like, 'I have a great life outside of this.
What am I doing?'
So, I'm going to go back to that beautiful life.
And I'm looking forward to it."
He added, "I was happier when I wasn't president."
When asked about his message to the fans, Johnson said, "We're heading in the right direction.
Just hang in there.
Everything's OK." Later, Buss took to social media and tweeted, "Earvin, I loved working side by side with you.
You've brought us a long way.
We will continue the journey.
We love you."
"There is no greater Los Angeles Laker than Earvin Johnson," the Lakers said in a statement.
"We are deeply grateful to Magic for all that he has done for our franchise as a player, an ambassador and an executive."
Johnson's greatest achievement as an executive would undoubtedly be bringing LeBron James to Los Angeles on a four-year contract.
During his tenure as head of Lakers basketball operations, Johnson oversaw a major overhaul of the roster.
Brandon Ingram is the only player on the current roster that was on the team when Johnson took over.
After he completed the press conference, Johnson proceeded to give hugs to media members present, adding with his trademark smile, "This is it for me."
Ahead of Dwyane Wade's final regular season home game, Budweiser released an emotional tribute video about the lives he influenced.
The inspiring impact from Dwyane Wade's career stretched beyond the court.
It reached the hearts of people.
Ahead of Wade's final regular season home game in Miami, Budweiser released an emotional tribute video about the lives he influenced.
Five people are featured in the video that mirrors Wade's season-long tradition of swapping jerseys with other NBA players.
1.
The sister of longtime Wade fan Joaquin Oliver, who was killed in the Parkland school shooting: "My brother Joaquin loved you from the beginning," she said.
"You're not Wade the basketball player, legend you're the human being that took the time and, on his own, wrote my brother's name on his shoe, and you cared."
In the swap, she gave him the basketball jersey Joaquin wore on his last championship game.
She wrote on the jersey: "Please don't forget my brother Joaquin."
2.
A woman who was able to attend college thanks to his Wade's World Foundation: "It was always my dream that I get the change to go to college, but we just didn't have the money," she said.
"Without you and your full-tuition scholarship, none of this would have been possible."
In the swap, she handed him the cap and gown she wore on graduation.
3.
A man from Miami who rose above his circumstances and steered away from the wrong path thanks to inspiration from Wade: "A lot of the words that you've said hit a spark and kinda changed where I was going," he said.
In the swap, he gave Wade the blazer he wore for his first job interview.
On the blazer, he wrote: "Having you as a role model has made all the difference."
4.
A woman who Wade took shopping after she lost everything in a house fire before Christmas: "It was one of the lowest points in my life," she told Wade.
"We received a phone call 'Would you mind Dwyane Wade take you and the family on a shopping spree?'"
"It just meant the world to me that you were there for us at this time," she said.
"You became our hero."
5.
Wade's mother, Jolinda Wade: She recounted the difficulties she and her family faced when she was imprisoned.
However, Wade continued to support her despite the odds.
He would later buy her a church so she could positively influence others herself.
She gave her son a custom purple shirt to represent royalty that features his iconic No.
3 jersey number that reads: "By Faith I Believe."
"I am more proud of the man you have become than the basketball player," Wade's mom says.
"You are bigger than basketball."
In this file photo, pitcher Leandro Martinez #71 of Cuba throws in the top of the fifth inning during the World Baseball Classic Pool E Game Five between Netherlands and Cuba at the Tokyo Dome on March 15, 2017 in Tokyo, Japan.
The Trump administration is moving to reverse an Obama-era ruling that allowed Cuban baseball players to sign with Major League Baseball teams in the U.S., NBC News reported.
The Trump administration is moving to undercut a landmark agreement enabling Cuban baseball players to play on Major League Baseball teams, a senior administration official tells NBC News, by overturning an Obama-era decision that said Cubas baseball league is not part of the Cuban government.
The administration has discretion to decide whether the Cuban Baseball Federation is too closely aligned with that country's sports ministry to allow independent agreements involving players.
The Trump administration has worked to pull back from the closer ties to Cuba that were established during President Obama's tenure.
"Major League Baseball has been informed of the dangers of dealing with Cuba, the senior administration official said.
Dwyane Wade and Gabrielle Union shared a snapshot on their Instagram Stories of Zion, 11, posing with his stepmom at the Miami Beach Pride Parade on Sunday.
(Published Tuesday, April 9, 2019) Miami Heat star Dwyane Wade shared his support publicly for his 11-year-old son, who appeared Sunday at the annual Miami Beach Pride march.
We support each other with Pride, Wade wrote on Instagram over a photo of his son, Zion, who appeared with his stepmom, actress Gabrielle Union.
Over another image, Wade, who was in Toronto for an NBA game Sunday, wrote, Zion had his on [sic] cheering section today.
Wish i was there to see you smile kid!
He included a rainbow pride flag emoji on the post.
Zion and his stepmom were on a float during Sunday's LGBTQ pride festival.
Other family members, including his big brother, Zaire, 17, and baby sister, Kaavia, were also at the event.
Zaire Wade shared his public support on Instagram for his younger brother, writing: Love you lil bro no matter what.
There was an outpouring of support on social media after the NBA star's posts Sunday.
