Douyu, a Chinese live streaming service focused on video games, has filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as it prepares to raise up to $500 million on the NYSE less than a year after its archrival floated on the same stock market.
Wuhan-based Douyu, whose name translates as fighting fish, is the second Twitch -like service backed by Tencent to go public in the United States.
Its direct competitor Huya, who has a similarly fierce name tigers teeth and also counts Tencent as a major investor, raised $180 million from its NYSE listing last May.
Its not surprising for Tencent to hedge its bets in esports streaming, given the giant relies heavily on video games to make money.
For example, Tencent can use some of its portfolio companies ad slots to get the word out about its new releases.
Indeed, Douyus filing shows it received a hefty 27.48 million yuan ($4.09 million) in advertising fees from Tencent last year.
As Douyu warns in its prospectus, its alliance with Tencent can be tenuous.
Tencent may devote resources or attention to the other companies it has an interest in, including our direct or indirect competitors.
As a result, we may not fully realize the benefits we expect from the strategic cooperation with Tencent.
Failure to realize the intended benefits from the strategic cooperation with Tencent, or potential restrictions on our collaboration with other parties, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.
But there are nuances in the giants ties to Chinas top two live streaming services that could mean more affinity between Tencent and Douyu.
The social media and gaming behemoth is currently Douyus largest shareholder with a 40.1 percent stake owned through its wholly-owned subsidiary Nectarine.
Over at Huya, Tencent is the second-largest stakeholder behind YY, the pioneer in Chinas live streaming sector that had spun off Huya.
When it comes to the financial terms, the rivaling pair is in a head-on race.
In 2018, Douyu doubled its net revenues to $531.5 million.
Huya held an edge as it earned $678.3 million in the same period, also doubling the amount from a year ago.
Huya may have learned a few things about monetizing live streaming from 14-year-old YY as it managed to pull in more revenues despite owning a smaller user base.
Douyu claimed 153.5 million monthly active users in the fourth quarter compared to 134.4 million in the year-earlier period.
Huya clocked in 116.6 million MAUs in the fourth quarter, up from 86.7 million a year ago.
How the two make money also diverge slightly.
In the fourth quarter, 86 percent of Douyus revenues originated from virtual items that users tipped to their favorite streaming hosts, with the remaining earnings derived from advertising and more.
By contrast, Huya relied almost exclusively on live streaming gifts, which made up 95.3 percent of total revenues.
As Douyu grows its coffers to spend on content as well as technologies following the impending IPO, competition in Chinas live streaming landscape is set to heat up.
Just earlier this month, Huya raised $327 million in a secondary offering to invest in content and R&D.
Like many other businesses anchored in content, Huya and Douyu depend tremendously on quality creators to keep users loyal.
Both have offered sizable checks to live streaming hosts, promising to grow the internet celebrities into bigger stars.
And theyve extended the battlefield outside China as emerging media forms, most exemplified by short video services Douyin (TikToks China version) and Kuaishou, threaten to steal peoples eyeball time away.
Both bite-size video apps now enjoy a much bigger user base than their live streaming counterparts.
We intend to further explore overseas markets to expand our user base through both organic expansion and selective investments, noted Douyu in its IPO filing.
In a similar move, Huyas overseas expansion is also well underway.
In addition to our vigorous domestic growth, we have successfully leveraged our unique business model to enter new overseas markets.
We believe we are delivering long-term value through strategic investments in overseas markets in 2019 and beyond, said Huya chief executive Rongjie Dong in the companys Q4 earnings report.
Ruthless copying is common in tech.
Just ask Snapchat.
However, its typically more conceptual than literal.
But car API startup Smartcar claims that its competitor Otonomo copy-and-pasted Smartcars API documentation, allegedly plagiarizing it extensively to the point of including the originals typos and randomly generated strings of code.
Its published a series of side-by-side screenshots detailing the supposed theft of its intellectual property.
Smartcar CEO Sahas Katta says We do have evidence of several of their employees systemically using our product with behavior indicating they wanted to copy our product in both form and function.
Now a spokesperson for the startup tells me Weve filed a cease-and-desist letter, delivered to Otonomo this morning, that contains documented aspects of different breaches and violations.
The accusations are troubling given Otonomo is not some inconsequential upstart.
The Israel-based company has raised over $50 million since its founding in 2015, and its investors include auto parts giant Aptiv (formerly Delphi) and prestigious VC firm Bessemer Ventures Partners.
Otonomo CMO Lisa Joy provided this statement in response to the allegations, noting it will investigate but is confident it acted with integrity: Otonomo prides itself on providing a completely unique offering backed by our own intellectual property and patents.
We take Smartcars questions seriously and are conducting an investigation, but we remain confident that our rigorous standards of integrity remain uncompromised.
If our investigation reveals any issues, we will immediately take the necessary steps to address them.
Both startups are trying to build an API layer that connects data from cars with app developers so they can build products that can locate, unlock, or harness data from vehicles.
The 20-person Mountain View-based Smartcar has raised $12 million from Andreessen Horowitz and NEA.
A major deciding factor in wholl win this market is which platform offers the best documentation that makes it easiest for developers to integrate the APIs.
A few days ago, we came across Otonomos publicly available API documentation.
As we read through it, we quickly realized that something was off.
It looked familiar.
Oddly familiar.
Thats because we wrote it Smartcar explains in its blog post.
We didnt just find a few vague similarities to Smartcars documentation.
Otonomos docs are a systematically written rip-off of ours from the overall structure, right down to code samples and even typos.
The screenshot above comparing API documentation from Smartcar on the left and Otonomo on the right appears to show Otonomo used nearly identical formatting and the exact same randomly generated sample identifier (highlighted) as Smartcar.
Further examples flag seemingly identical code strings and snippets.
Otonomo has pulled down their docs.otonomo.io documentation website, but TechCrunch has reviewed an Archive.org Wayback Machine showing this Otonomo site as of April 5, 2019 featured sections that are identical to the documentation Smartcar published in August 2018.
That includes Smartcars typo it will returned here, and its randomly generated sample code placeholder 4a1b01e5-0497-417c-a30e-6df6ba33ba46 which both appear in the Wayback Machine copy of Otonomos docs.
The typo was fixed in this version of Otonomos docs thats still publicly available, but that code string remains.
It would be a one in a quintillion chance of them happening to land on the same randomly generated string Smartcars Katta tells TechCrunch.
Yet curiously, Otonomos CMO told TechCrunch that The materials that [Smartcar] put on their post are all publicly accessible documentation, Its all public domain content.
But thats not true, Katta argues, given the definition of public domain is content belonging to the public thats uncopyrightable.
I would sure hope not, considering .
.
.
we have proper copyright notices at the bottom.
Our product is our intellectual property.
Just like Twilios API documentation or Stripes, it is published and publicly available and it is proprietary.
Otonomos Lisa Joy noted that her startup is currently fundraising for its Series C, which reportedly already includes $10 million from South Korean energy and telecom holdings giant SK.
Were in the middle of raising a round right now.
That round is not done she told me.
But if Otonomo gets a reputation for allegedly copying its API docs, that could hurt its standing with developers and potentially endanger that funding round.
Fintech is very much still hot in Asia.
ZestMoney, a startup that helps consumers with no credit history get loans to buy online, announced today it has raised a $20 million Series B.
The round is led by Quona Capital, a stealthy Washington-based fund that invests in emerging market fintech and has an office in India.
Others participating included new backer Reinventure, an Australian fund which includes Coinbase among its fintech portfolio, as well as returning investors Ribbit Capital, Omidyar Network and Naspers -owned PayU.
The round takes ZestMoney to $42 million to date, it previously raised a $13.4 million Series A2 led by Chinese phone giant Xiaomi last August.
ZestMoney was founded in 2015 by Lizzie Chapman (its CEO), Priya Sharma (CFO/COO) and Ashish Anantharaman (CTO).
The trio pictured at the top met working at Wonga after Chapman moved to India from the UK to head up the controversial pay-day loan companys local business.
That venture ended up falling through and the rest is history, as they say.
Unlike Wonga and its ilk, ZestMoney is very much a consumer-centric loans company.
Thats to say that it works with consumers who have no credit card, limited credit history and often very little assessable data, to help them build a profile and become credit-worthy.
That typically begins with small loans, which grow as a customer repays successfully.
The startup has partnered with over 800 merchants, including Flipkart and Amazon, to offer financing options at point-of-sale.
That helps retailers close out transactions whilst enabling consumers to buy medium-to-large ticket items, which typically include electronics, education and learning costs or vacations.
Most of its transactions happen online, but Xiaomi is a major partner helping ZestMoneys offline push.
Small loans dont generate a return that makes the hassle worthwhile for banks, but thats where startups like ZestMoney come in.
It aggregates the smaller customers and manages the details, making it an attractive partner at scale for banks and thats another stakeholder that the startup works with.
All in all, the approach runs in stark contrast to the ratchety terms that Wonga and others force on consumers who use their credit services.
As Chapman told us last year: New age fintech is much more optimistic the thesis is Behave well and do good things and youll get cheaper pricing.'
Speaking to TechCrunch this week, the ZestMoney CEO said the new capital will towards further increasing the focus on technology.
That includes AI for credit assessment and other analytics, as well as developing voice-based communication and facial recognition technologies that will help engage consumers who are less comfortable with English as a language and lack experience using the internet and digital services.
The company is also beginning to cast its eye overseas, and it has opened an office in Singapore as it begins to assess expansion opportunities in the Southeast Asian region.
Singapore is the regional hub, especially for fintech, but Chapman said the country itself isnt likely to be a market for ZestMoney.
She also cautioned that expansion isnt likely to come in the immediate future.
Were looking at doing things around the Southeast Asia region, she explained in an interview.
We wont dive in and start operating in 10 other markets overnight, but a lot of countries [there] have synergies with India.
There could be opportunities to work with local e-commerce companies or perhaps license our technology.
The main focus for ZestMoney will remain its home market in India, however.
There is still a huge, huge ocean of demand in India, added Chapman who spoke at our Disrupt Berlin event last year.
We still see sub-five percent financing online and it is just 30 percent offline.
With that in mind, Chapman said ZestMoney is making a more concerted push around its in-store financing option that works directly with physical retail partners.
Quona Capital co-founder and managing partner Ganesh Rengaswamy echoed Chapmans belief that there is still plenty of growth opportunity in India.
ZestMoney and Quonas partnership is very symbiotic given the shared values of addressing big challenges in emerging markets fintech, market leadership through responsible high growth, and delivering financial accessibility to vastly underserved consumers, he said in a statement
Twitter shut down Dom Hoffmans app Vine, giving away the short-form video goldmine to Chinas TikTok.
Now a year and half since Hoffman announced hed reimagine the app as V2 then scrapped that name, his follow-up to Vine called Byte has finally sent out the first 100 invites to its closed beta.
Byte will let users record or upload short, looped vertical videos to whats currently a reverse-chronological feed.
the byte beta weve been running with friends and family *feels* exactly like the vine friends and family beta, down to the weird but appealing randomness of the videos.
thatll change as we expand, but its a pretty good sign pic.twitter.com/rBbQrNtTJ7 dom hofmann (@dhof) April 22, 2019 It will be a long uphill climb for Byte given TikToks massive popularity.
But if it differentiates by focusing less on lip syncing and teen non-sense so its less alienating to an older audience, there might be room for a homegrown competitor in short-form video entertainment.
Hoffman tells TechCrunch that hes emboldened by the off-the-cuff nature of the beta community, which he believes proves the app is compelling even before lots of creative and funny video makers join.
He says his top priority is doing right by creators so theyll be lined up to give Byte a shot when it officially launches even if they could get more views elsewhere.
For now, Hoffman plans to keep running beta tests, adding and subtracting features for a trial by fire to see what works and whats unnecessary.
The current version is just camera recordings with no uploads, and just a feed with Likes and comments but no account following.
Upcoming iterations from his seven-person team will test video uploads and profiles.
One reassuring point is that Hoffman is well aware that TikToks epic rise has changed the landscape.
He admits that Byte cant win with the exact same playbook Vine did when it faced an open field, and it must bring something unique.
Hoffman tells me hes a big fan of TikTok, and sees it as one evolutionary step past Vine, but not in the same direction as his new app Does the world need Vine back if TikTok already has over 500 million active users?
Well soon find out of Hoffman can take a Byte of that market.
Tesla expects to launch the first robotaxis as part of broader vision for an autonomous ride-sharing network in 2020, CEO Elon Musk said during the companys Autonomy Day.
I feel very confident predicting that there will be autonomous robotaxis from Tesla next year not in all jurisdictions because we wont have regulatory approval everywhere Musk said without detailing what regulations he was referring to.
He added that he is confident the company will have regulatory approval somewhere next year.
Tesla will enable owners to add their properly equipped vehicles to its own ride-sharing app, which will have a similar business model to Uber or Airbnb .
Tesla will take 25 percent to 30 percent of the revenue from those rides, Musk said.
In places where there arent enough people to share their cars, Tesla would provide a dedicated fleet of robotaxis.
Musk has talked about the Tesla Network and ambitions to allow owners to place their vehicles on the ride-hailing app since 2016.
All new Tesla vehicles are now produced with its custom full self-driving computer chip, a detail that Musk revealed during the event Monday.
That chip fulfills the hardware requirements for full self-driving, according to Musk, who boasted that it was the best in the world.
(Tesla vehicles are equipped with a suite of sensors such as forward-facing radar and cameras.
It does not have lidar, or light detection and ranging radar, a sensor that most AV developers say is critical, but that Musk argues is a fools errand and doomed.)
The remaining step is the software, which Musk says will be feature complete and at a reliability level that we would consider that no one needs to pay attention, by the middle of next year.
From our standpoint, if you fast forward a year, maybe a year and three months, but next year for sure, well have over a million robotaxis on the road, Musk said.
The fleet wakes up with an over the air update; thats all it takes.
Musk also noted at numerous times that the full self-driving and the robotaxi fleet will require regulatory approval.
However, he didnt explain what kinds of regulatory approval is needed.
The federal government does not have any laws regulating autonomous vehicles.
There are only voluntary guidelines.
And if the vehicles are not altered in any way on the hardware side such as removing the steering wheel or pedals, for instance its unclear how the federal government could limit Tesla.
Musk could be referring to local and state laws that regulate ride-hailing networks.
Again, its unclear and well update the story if Tesla provides new information.
Recharging the Tesla robotaxis is one of few challenges that the company will face as it prepares to deploy.
Musk noted that he sees a future where the robotaxis would return home and automatically park and recharge.
While he stopped short of confirming a production version of the snake charger Tesla unveiled in 2015, it was clear that Tesla sees a similar version coming to market alongside the robotaxi network.
At its Autonomy Day today, Tesla detailed the new custom chip that will be running the self-driving software in its vehicles.
Elon Musk rather peremptorily called it the best chip in the worldobjectively.
That might be a stretch, but it certainly should get the job done.
Called for now the full self-driving computer, or FSD Computer, it is a high-performance, special-purpose chip built (by Samsung, in Texas) solely with autonomy and safety in mind.
Whether and how it actually outperforms its competitors is not a simple question and we will have to wait for more data and closer analysis to say more.
Former Apple chip engineer Pete Bannon went over the FSDCs specs, and while the numbers may be important to software engineers working with the platform, whats more important at a higher level is meeting various requirements specific to self-driving tasks.
Perhaps the most obvious feature catering to AVs is redundancy.
The FSDC consists of two duplicate systems right next to each other on one board.
This is a significant choice, though hardly unprecedented, simply because splitting the system in two naturally divides its power as well, so if performance were the only metric (if this was a server, for instance) youd never do it.
Here, however, redundancy means that should an error or damage creep in somehow or another, it will be isolated to one of the two systems and reconciliation software will detect and flag it.
Meanwhile the other chip, on its own power and storage systems, should be unaffected.
And if something happens that breaks both at the same time, the system architecture is the least of your worries.
Redundancy is a natural choice for AV systems, but its made more palatable by the extreme levels of acceleration and specialization that are possible nowadays for neural network-based computing.
A regular general-purpose CPU like you have in your laptop will get schooled by a GPU when it comes to graphics-related calculations, and similarly a special compute unit for neural networks will beat even a GPU.
As Bannon notes, the vast majority of calculations are a specific math operation and catering to that yields enormous performance benefits.
Pair that with high speed RAM and storage and you have very little in the way of bottlenecks as far as running the most complex parts of the self-driving systems.
The resulting performance is impressive, enough to make a proud Musk chime in during the presentation: How could it be that Tesla, who has never designed a chip before, would design the best chip in the world?
But that is objectively what has occurred.
Not best by a small margin, best by a big margin.
Lets take this with a grain of salt, as surely engineers from Nvidia, Mobileye, and other self-driving concerns would take issue with the statement on some grounds or another.
And even if it is the best chip in the world, there will be a better one in a few months and regardless, hardware is only as good as the software that runs on it.
(Fortunately Tesla has some amazing talent on that side as well.)
(One quick note for a piece of terminology you might not be familiar with: OPs.
This is short for operations for second, and its measured in the billions and trillions these days.
FLOPs is another common term, which means floating-point operations per second; these pertain to higher-precision math often used by supercomputers for scientific calculations.
One isnt better or worse than the other, and they shouldnt be compared directly or considered exchangeable.)
Update: Right on cue, Nvidia objected to Teslas comparison in a statement, calling it inaccurate.
The Xavier chip Tesla compared its hardware favorably to is a more lightweight chip for autopilot-type features, not full self driving.
The 320-TOP Drive AGX Pegasus would have been a better comparison, the company said though admittedly the Pegasus pulls about four times as much power.
So per-watt Tesla comes out ahead by the stats weve seen.
(Chris here called it during the webcast.)
High-performance computing tasks tend to drain the battery, like doing transcoding or HD video editing on your laptop and it bites the dust after 45 minutes.
If your car did that youd be mad, and rightly so.
Fortunately a side effect of acceleration tends to be efficiency.
The whole FSDC runs on about 100 watts (or 50 per compute unit), which is pretty low its not cell phone chip low, but its well below what a desktop or high performance laptop would pull, less even than many single GPUs.
Some AV-oriented chips draw more, some draw less, but Teslas claim is that theyre getting more power per watt than the competition.
Again, these claims are difficult to vet immediately considering the closed nature of AV hardware development, but its clear that Tesla is at least competitive and may very well beat its competitors on some important metrics.
Two more AV-specific features found on the chip, though not in duplicate (the compute pathways converge at some point), are some CPU lockstep work and a security layer.
Lockstep means that it is being very carefully enforced that the timing on these chips is the same, ensuring that they are processing the exact same data at the same time.
It would be disastrous if they got out of sync either with each other or with other systems.
Everything in AVs depends on very precise timing while minimizing delay, so robust lockstep measures are put in place to keep that straight.
The security section of the chip vets commands and data cryptographically to watch for, essentially, hacking attempts.
Like all AV systems, this is a finely-oiled machine and interference must not be allowed for any reason lives are on the line.
So the security piece watches the input and output data carefully to watch for anything suspicious like spoofed visual data (to trick the car into thinking theres a pedestrian, for instance) to tweaked output data (say to prevent it from taking proper precautions if it does detect a pedestrian).
The most impressive part of all might be that this whole custom chip is backwards-compatible with existing Teslas, able to be dropped right in, and it wont even cost that much.
Exactly how much the system itself costs Tesla, and how much youll be charged as a customer well, that will probably vary.
But despite being the best chip in the world, this one is relatively affordable.
Part of that might be from going with a 14nm fabrication process rather than the sub-10nm process others have chosen (and to which Tesla may eventually have to migrate).
For power savings the smaller the better and as weve established, efficiency is the name of the game here.
Well know more once theres a bit more objective truly objective, apologies to Musk testing on this chip and its competition.
For now just know that Tesla isnt slacking and the FSD Computer should be more than enough to keep your Model 3 on the road.
Chinas Luckin Coffee has registered plans with the SEC to go public on the Nasdaq, setting a placeholder amount of $100 million, shows its filing.
The development comes less than a week after the 18-month-old company announced $150 million in Series B plus funding led by the giant asset manager BlackRock, which pumped $125 million into the company in a deal that values Luckin at $2.9 billion.
As TechCrunch reported last Wednesday, BlackRock also owns a nearly 7 percent stake in Starbucks, the nearly 50-year-old American coffee company that has taken over the world and now finds itself in a knock-down-drag-out battle with the Beijing-based upstart.
Its hard to blame BlackRock for hedging its bets.
While Starbucks now enjoys a market cap of nearly $94 billion and its stock has more than doubled over the last five years to a current $76 per share, Luckin has been growing like gangbusters, fueled by the more than $550 million it has raised to date, including a $200 million Series A round that it closed last July, and a $200 million Series B round that it announced in December.
Indeed, while Starbucks has opened up 3,600 stores across 150 cities in China since first emerging on the scene 20 years ago, Luckin has already opened 2,000 outlets, including prep kitchens and pick-up stations across 22 cities.
More amazing, or crazy, depending on your view, Luckin plans to more than double that number by the end of this year.
Starbucks has meanwhile announced plans to double the number of stores it has in China over the next five years.
In addition to BlackRock, others of Luckins backers include Centurium Capital, Joy Capital, GIC, and Legend Capital.
Teslas full self-driving computer is now in all new cars and a next-gen chip is already halfway done The Tesla computer, a new custom chip designed to enable full self-driving capabilities, is now in all new Model 3, X and S vehicles, CEO Elon Musk said during the companys Autonomy Day.
Tesla switched over from Nvidias Drive platform to its own custom chip for the Model S and X about a month ago and for the Model 3 about 10 days ago, Musk said.
All cars being produced all have the hardware necessary computer and otherwise for full self-driving, Musk said.
All you need to do is improve the software.
Work is also already underway on a next-generation chip, Musk added.
The design of this current chip was completed maybe one and half, two years ago.
Tesla is now about halfway through the design of the next-generation chip.
Musk wanted to focus the talk on the current chip, but he later added that the next-generation one would be three times better than the current system and was about two years away.
The software caveat about full self-driving is an important one.
Tesla vehicles are not considered fully autonomous, or Level 4, a designation by SAE that means the car can handle all aspects of driving in certain conditions without human intervention.
Instead, Tesla vehicles are Level 2, a more advanced driver assistance system than most other vehicles on the road today.
Musk has promised that the advanced driver assistance capabilities on Tesla vehicles will continue to improve until eventually reaching that full automation high-water mark.
Tesla offers two different advanced driver assistance packages to customers: Autopilot and Full Self-Driving.
Autopilot is ADAS that offers a combination of adaptive cruise control and lane steering and is now a standard feature on new cars.
The price of vehicles has been adjusted higher to reflect the addition of Autopilot as a standard feature.
Full Self-Driving, or FSD, costs an additional $5,000.
(And, to be clear, vehicles are not full self-driving driving.)
FSD includes Summon as well as Navigate on Autopilot, an active guidance system that navigates a car from a highway on-ramp to off-ramp, including interchanges and making lane changes.
Once drivers enter a destination into the navigation system, they can enable Navigate on Autopilot for that trip.
Today at Teslas first Autonomy Day event, Elon Musk took questions from the press but didnt have time for questions about lidar.
Historically, hes been vocal about the technology, and this time he put it as clear as he could.
Lidar is a fools errand, Elon Musk said.
Anyone relying on lidar is doomed.
Doomed!
[They are] expensive sensors that are unnecessary.
Its like having a whole bunch of expensive appendices.
Like, one appendix is bad, well now you have a whole bunch of them, its ridiculous, youll see.
The topic was brought up by a question about if Teslas just-revealed self-driving hardware could handle input from lidar.
Teslas vehicles currently uses several sources of data to acquire autonomous driving: radar, GPS, maps, ultrasonic sensors and more.
But not lidar like some of Teslas chief competitors.
Elon Musk previously explained that he views lidar as a crutch for self-driving vehicles.
For Tesla, cameras are the keys to the future and its CEO sees a future when cameras will enable Tesla to see through the most adverse weather situations.
Andrej Karparthy, Senior Director of AI, took the stage and explained that the world is built for visual recognition.
Lidar systems, he said, have a hard time deciphering between a plastic bag and a rubber tire.
Large scale neural network training and visual recognition are necessary for Level 4 and Level 5 autonomy, he said.
In that sense, lidar is really a shortcut, Karparthy said.
It sidesteps the fundamental problems, the important problem of visual recognition, that is necessary for autonomy.
It gives a false sense of progress, and is ultimately a crutch.
It does give, like, really fast demos!
Uber, Waymo, Cruise and several others use the technology in their self-driving technology stack.
As proponents of the technology, they point to lidars ability to see through challenging weather and light conditions better than existing cameras.
Theyre expensive.
And often hungry for power.
Thats where Teslas solution around cameras comes in.
The company today detailed its current generation self-driving computer that works with all existing Tesla vehicles.
Once the software is ready, it will enable all Teslas to drive autonomously with their existing sensor set at least thats what the company says and that sensor set doesnt include lidar.
Instead, the sensors inside Tesla vehicles lean on a neural network thats trained by data collected by all Tesla vehicles.
Everyones training the network all the time, Musk said.
Whether autopilot is on or off, the network is being trained.
Every mile thats driven for the car thats hardware 2 or above is training the network.
The resulting data is kind of scary, Musk mused later in the press conference.
But presumably not as scary as relying on LIDAR.
As the internet TV services have matured, their pricing has as well.
The majority have raised their price points some have even done so multiple times.
Today, Philo is following suitbut only by a little.
The streaming TV service has been one of the cheapest on the market, with an entry-level plan that began at only $16 per month for 45 channels.
Now, its doing away with this super low-cost plan, and will only offer the existing $20 per month plan instead.
The $20 per month plan has offered 58 channels, as an upgrade from the basic plan with cable TV favorites.
The upgrade adds on a few more networks, like MTV Live, BET Her, Nicktoons, Logo, Cooking Channel, Destination America, Discovery Family Channel, Discovery Life Channel, and others.
These, arguably, arent all must-haves and likely, few of its subscribers chose to the higher priced package.
The company declined to say how many customers it has, or the percentage of customers who had subscribed to its $16 and $20 plans.
With the price changes that go live on May 6, 2019, all new Philo customers will only have the option to sign up for the $20 per month page.
Existing subscribers will be grandfathered into the current pricing, however.
Theyll also still be able to move back and forth between the two current plans, even after the May 6 deadline (so long as their subscription doesnt lapse.)
Company CEO Andrew McCollum explained the move as needed to keep up with the times and to address the rising operating costs Philo faces in a statement posted to the company website.
At Philo, we care deeply about creating the best TV experience possible at an affordable price.
Consolidating into a single $20 package was the best way for us to maintain the same offering we have today without raising prices for everyone, or having to cut back in places we strive to excel, like our customer support, he said.
The 18-month old company is one of the few that hadnt yet rolled out a price increase.
Hulu raised prices for its Live TV service in January, and YouTube TV just did so again just a couple of weeks ago.
Sling TV, DirecTV Now, and PlayStation Vue have all seen price hikes, too.
And in the subscription video on demand market, Netflix has been creeping ever higher, as well.
With new video services from Disney, Apple and WarnerMedia set to arrive this year, some consumers will be looking to shift funds around to afford their new subscriptions.
Philo could benefit if subscribers drop higher-priced services in order to save money.
Despite the slight price bump, Philo still remains a low-cost option because it strategically opted to not stream sports.
That allowed it to pass along the cost savings along to customers who could watch sports in other ways (or who didnt care to watch sports at all.)
The company today caters to a younger demographic and has been developing a co-viewing, social feature to differentiate itself further.
This feature is now in internal testing, the company said this month.
Over the last five years, almost everything about web development has changed.
Oh, the old tech still works, your WordPress and Ruby On Rails sites still function just fine but theyre increasingly being supplanted by radical new approaches.
The contents of your browser are being sliced, diced, rendered, and processed in wholly new ways nowadays, and the state of art is currently in serious flux.
What follows is a brief tour of what I like to call the New New Web: Table of Contents 1.
Single-Page Apps These have become so much the norm our web projects at HappyFunCorp are almost always single-page apps nowadays that its easy to forget how new and radical they were when they first emerged, in the days of jQuery running in pages dynamically built from templates on the server.
Evisort, a document and contract management company, left one of its document databases unsecured, exposing customer data.
The startup, founded by former Harvard and MIT students in 2016, bills itself as an artificial intelligence contract management company, which it says helps to better organize its customers legal documents and contracts.
Among its claims, the company can evaluate and pull out the most relevant information in a 30-page contract in a matter of seconds.
And so far, the investors like the pitch, securing $4.5 million in seed funding led by Village Global and Amity Ventures, with participations from Accenture and SAP.
According to an anonymous tip sent in to TechCrunch, the company left an Elasticsearch database open without a password, allowing anyone to search the files inside.
When reached, Evisorts chief executive Jerry Ting said the database was for testing and development purposes only and an audit was under way.
While some of the documents were marked dummy and test files, many documents seen by TechCrunch contained customer data.
These are confidential agreements between many established large famous companies that are hosted on the internet for anyone to see, said the anonymous tipster, who provided links to several files in the database.
The company lists Stack Overflow and TravelZoo as customers.
The database also contained non-disclosure agreements between Evisort and Samsung.
A similar agreement with Squarespace found in the database was signed by Ting.
Many of the files included employee contracts, loan agreements (one worth $200 million) and resumes.
We reached out to several people whose information was found in the database.
One person we spoke to said they had no idea how their resume got into Evisorts database.
Other files appeared to be contracts and agreements submitted by Evisort customers.
Many of the documents we saw had confidential information.
Another file contained details of an agreement by Evisort and a third-party security company, dated February 21, to conduct a penetration test on its network a way of finding and fixing security vulnerabilities before they are exploited.
Evisort shut down the database within an hour of TechCrunch reaching out.
In a follow-up email, Ting conceded that some customer data was exposed.
(Ting declared his email off the record, which requires both parties agree to the terms in advance, but we are printing the reply as we were given no opportunity to reject.)
The database is not part of our production environment, but a part of our internal development environment used by our engineers, he said.
Although our investigation is ongoing, the vast majority of information contained in the development database was placeholder or benign information used for testing purposes, he said in the email.
However, it appears that there may be a small number legitimate documents in this environment.
As part of our investigation, we will be reviewing the entire data set in the environment, along with any available logging data, to determine what information may have been affected and we will be communicating directly with any of our customers who could be affected, he added.
Ting added that the company is in the process of retaining an outside forensic firm to assess the impact on customers.
Evisort didnt say how long the data was exposed.
Data search engine Binary Edge first detected the system on March 22.
Its the latest in a string of sizable data exposures in recent months, including text messages, medical records, a watchlist of high-risk individuals, a robocalling firm, millions of mortgage and loan documents and even a spam operation.
Read more:
Anthony just returned from Vancouver, where he was covering the TED2019 conference a much-parodied gathering where VCs, executives and other bigwigs gather to exchange ideas.
This year, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey got the biggest headlines, but the questions raised in his onstage interview kept popping up throughout the week: How has social media warped our democracy?
How can the big online platforms fight back against abuse and misinformation?
And what is the Internet good for, anyway?
Wednesday at 11:00 am PT, Anthony will recap the five-day events most interesting talks and provocative ideas with Extra Crunch members on a conference call.
Tune in to dig into what happened onstage and off and ask Anthony any and all things media.
To listen to this and all future conference calls, become a member of Extra Crunch.
Learn more and try it for free.
Why its so hard to know who owns Huawei Its one of the greatest technology startup success stories of the personal computer and smartphone eras.
Yet, despite selling 59 million smartphones and netting $27 billion in revenue last quarter in its first-ever public earnings report this morning, a strange and tantalizing question shrouds the worlds number two handset manufacturer behind Samsung.
Who owns Huawei?
To hear the company tell it, its 100% employee-owned.
In a statement circulated last week, it said that Huawei is a private company wholly owned by its employees.
No government agency or outside organization holds shares in Huawei or has any control over Huawei.
Thats a simple statement, but oh is it so much more complicated.
As with all things related to Huawei, which outside of its 5G archrival Qualcomm is probably the tech company most entrenched in geopolitics today, the story is never as simple as it appears at first glance.
Sarah Paiji had the idea to launch the eco-friendly refillable cleaning supply retailer Blueland after hearing about the abundance of microplastics in the water she was using to dilute her childs baby formula.
Paiji wanted to cut back on her plastic consumption, and reduce her contribution to the overabundance of plastic waste in the environment, but felt that as a consumer she didnt have a choice.
So the former venture capital investor from the consumer startup brand studio Launch set out to create one.
The answer she came up with is Blueland, a new line of cleaning products that launches today.
Bluelands cleaners a bathroom cleaner, glass cleaner, and multi-purpose cleaner are sold as tablets that customers add to the cleaning containers the company provides.
These cleaners are mostly water, says Paiji.
Im paying for a plastic bottle that I dont really need and water which I have at home for free.
By adding water to the companys cleaning formulation in refillable containers the company sells, Blueland thinks its customers over time can eliminate the need for 100 billion single-use plastic bottles in the U.S. To provide the initial marketing push and continue its product development and sales efforts, the company has raised $3 million in a new round of funding from Global Founders Capital, Comcast Ventures, Cross Culture Ventures, BAM Ventures, along with individual investors like Justin Timberlake and the founder of the Los Angeles-based sustainable fast food chain, Sweetgreen, Nicholas Jammet; and sustainable online food retailer, Thrive Market, Nick Green.
After coming up with the idea Paiji had to find a manufacturer, whod be willing to help reinvent an entire product category for a startup retailer.
Blueland also wasnt Paijis first choice for a new startup idea.
That would have been a botox bar that would sell cosmetic treatments to folks who wanted treatments, but didnt want to pay high prices for them.
After putting the brakes on the botox business, Paiji reached out on LinkedIn to Syed Naqzi, the director of research and development at Method with her pitch for the cleaning product business.
With Naqzi on board, the company began filing patents for its unique process and the products its bringing to market, says Paiji.
Everything is proprietary everything is backed by patents, she says.
While Paiji wont disclose who the manufacturing partner is for the cleaning supplies, she did note that the company was in an adjacent consumables category to cleaners.
Within a year of reaching out to Naqzi last April, Paiji had a product supplier and the $3 million she needed to go to market.
Joining Paiji and Naqzi in setting up the business was John Moscari, a fellow Harvard Business School classmate of Paijis whod launched a company called Bundle Organics.
The companys refills cost $2 and the initial cleanup kits clock in at $30.
With the refills its unequivocally cheaper than buying a full bottle on the market, says Paiji.
The refills are 300 times lighter and 200 times smaller than traditional packaging for cleaning supplies and the company has plans to develop new products with similar packaging footprints across adjacent categories each quarter.
Just from a shipping perspective alone we cut out 90% because one to one were that much smaller, says Paiji.
Other, far larger, companies are thinking about their waste streams and end of life issues around their products an issue which is becoming more important since China tightened the regulations around the scrap materials it would collect and the amount of contamination those pallets of scrap could contain.
Last year, a coalition of major manufacturers of consumer packaged goods and foods formed Loop an ambitious project to create zero-waste supply chains for their products with consumers whod opt in.
Taking their cues from the milkman models of years long passed, companies like Procter & Gamble, Nestle, PepsiCo, Unilever, worked with the company TerraCycle to develop an updated version of the plan.
Consumers get refillable containers and as they use up the items, they can call a Loop pick up driver to take their containers away to be refilled or send them off at a UPS store.
Paiji argues that Blueland does something different with lower carbon emissions coming from the process and a greater impact on reuse.
Weve completely invented a new form factor for this, she says.
And were providing a more convenient way for people to reuse and refill.
The Daily Crunch is TechCrunchs roundup of our biggest and most important stories.
If youd like to get this delivered to your inbox every day at around 9am Pacific, you can subscribe here.
1.
Samsung reportedly pushes back Galaxy Fold release Four days out from the Galaxy Folds official release date, Samsung is pushing things back a bit, according to a report from The Wall Street Journal.
Theres no firm time frame for the launch, though the phone is still expected in the coming weeks.
TechCrunchs reviewer Brian Heater says he hasnt experienced any issues with his device, but a number of others reported malfunctioning displays.
2.
Tencents latest investment is an app that teaches grannies in China to dance Called Tangdou, or sugar beans in Chinese, the app announced that it has raised a Series C funding round led by Tencent.
3.
SiriusXMs new streaming-only Essential plan targets smart speaker owners The company has launched a new plan called SiriusXM Essential, targeting those who listen in-home and on mobile devices.
The streaming-only plan is also more affordable $8 per month, versus the $15.99 per month (and up) plans for SiriusXMs satellite radio service for cars.
4.
Confirmed: Pax Labs raises $420M at a valuation of $1.7B Thats right, $420 million for a vape maker.
CEO Bharat Vasan said, This financing round allows us to invest in new products and new markets, including international growth in markets like Canada and exploring opportunities in hemp-based CBD extracts.
5.
Sony launches a taxi-hailing app to rival Uber in Tokyo The service is a joint venture between Sony, its payment services subsidiary and five licensed taxi companies.
Because ride-hailing with civilian cars is illegal in Japan, the service will focus on connecting licensed taxis with passengers.
6.
The Exit: an AI startups McPivot An in-depth interview with investor Adam Fisher about the recent McDonalds acquisition of Dynamic Yield.
(Extra Crunch membership required.)
7.
This weeks TechCrunch podcasts This weeks episode of Equity addresses the aforementioned cannabis vaping round, followed up by an Equity Shot about the Fastly S-1.
Meanwhile, on Original Content we reviewed Donald Glovers Guava Island and discussed the new season of Game of Thrones.
Samsung has just confirmed that it will delay the release of the Galaxy Fold.
Confirming this mornings report, the company sent TechCrunch a statement noting that the foldable will not make its previously announced Friday ship date.
Once again, no details on availability are forthcoming which is honestly probably for the best, as the company assesses the situation.
The news follows reports of malfunctioning displays from multiple reviewers.
They were in the minority ours is still working just fine but three or four in such a small sample size is enough to raise concern.
The company says it will announce the release date in the coming weeks.
The statement is understandably still a bit defensive, but this time out, Samsung actually has initial findings to share from those faulty units.
According to the company, Initial findings from the inspection of reported issues on the display showed that they could be associated with impact on the top and bottom exposed areas of the hinge.
There was also an instance where substances found inside the device affected the display performance.
Its bad news for the device thats being positioned as the future of both Samsung and the mobile space in general, but the companys been through worse PR and come out largely unscathed.
The Galaxy Note 7 ultimately did little to damage Samsungs bottomline, thanks to a booming component business.
And that product was already shipping resulting in two separate recalls.
At least here the company was able to delay the device before it started shipping.
Its hard to say precisely how widespread these issues are and preproduction units are notorious for having issues.
But the statement does appear to a cautious admission that theres more going on here than just reviewers accidentally peeling back the protective layer.
Weve been skeptical of Samsungs ability to launch the device since its announcement earlier this year.
The company has been teasing flexible display technology since CES 2011, but a lack of devices at the Folds announcement and at Samsungs Mobile World Congress the following week left us wondering if it would be able to deliver on a very aggressive April 26 release date.
Looks like we just got the answer.
Heres the full statement,
JCPenney quietly ditched Apple Pay this month.
The decision was announced in response to a customer complaint on Twitter, but without any context or further explanation at the time.
JCPenney had first rolled out Apple Pay into testing in 2015, then expanded to all its U.S. stores the following year, and later to its mobile app.
The retailer now claims the move was necessitated by the April 13, 2019 deadline in the U.S. for supporting EMV contactless chip functionality.
As of this date, all terminals at U.S. merchants locations that accept contactless payments must actively support EMV contactless chip functionality, and the legacy MSD (magnetic stripe data) contactless technology must be retired.
JCPenney was not ready to comply, it seems, so it switched off all contactless payment options as a result.
However, it hasnt ruled out re-enabling them later on, it seems.
JCPenney made the decision to remove Apple Pay for our stores, we apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused.
We will definitely forward your feedback regarding this for review.
Ask JCPenney (@askjcp) April 20, 2019 In a statement provided to TechCrunch, JCPenney explained its decision: A third-party credit card brand made the requirement for all merchants to actively support EMV contactless functionality effective April 13, retiring the legacy MSD contactless technology in place.
Given the resources and lead time associated with meeting the new mandate, JCPenney chose to suspend all contactless payment options until a later date.
Customers still have the ability to complete their transactions manually by inserting or swiping their physical credit cards at our point-of-sale terminals in stores, an option employed by the vast majority of JCPenney shoppers.
Its worth noting, too, that JCPenney is hinting here at low Apple Pay adoption among its customer base as the vast majority of shoppers pay using a physical card.
That means the retailers decision to re-enable Apple Pay at a later date may still be in question especially as this change allows JCPenney to fully take back ownership of customer purchase data.
Customer data is an important part of JCPenneys plan to get the business back on its feet.
Under new CEO Jill Soltau, who took the job last October, the retailer has been closing underperforming stores, hiring new execs to focus on merchandise selection and eliminating its low-margin items, noted Bloomberg following the companys most recent earnings.
Its also reducing inventory and adjusting its buying process to ensure it doesnt end up with excess inventory going forward.
And, as Soltau explained to investors in February, the retailer is rethinking its pricing and promotions strategies, too.
I think thats one of the key initiatives that well be working on here in the coming months because were not being as strategic in how we speak to the customer and engage with the customer through our pricing and promotion, she said.
And I would frankly say it might be a little bit confusing, and you might not know exactly when you can get the best value at JCPenney, the CEO added.
Customer purchase data allows a retailer to better target its customers with relevant promotions, as stores are able to collect the customers name and card number at point of sale, which they can then combine with other demographic data like the customers address, phone and email.
Apple Pay, meanwhile, prevents this level of access something that customers like, but retailers traditionally have not.
In fact, the lack of access to customer data was one reason retailers were hesitant to warm up to Apple Pay in the first place, and spent years developing their rival solution, CurrentC, which ultimately failed.
Today, many major retailers incentivize customers to use their own payments solution instead of Apple Pay as with Walmart Pay, Sams Clubs Scan-and-Go, or like Target does with its store card, which can be combined with Cartwheel discounts in a single barcode scanned at point-of-sale.
Apple Pay is also a more secure method of payment, which todays consumers prefer particularly in the case of retailers who have suffered major data breaches, like JCPenney has in the past.
Plus, Apple Pay allows shoppers to carry only their phone not a wallet stuffed with physical cards.
The removal of Apple Pay from JCPenney stores was reported earlier by MacRumors which credited Appleosophy.
9to5Mac also noted Apple Pay was pulled from the JCPenney app.
JCPenney has more than 800 stores in 49 states.
Despite being dropped by JCPenney, Apple Pay remains a top mobile payment solution.
In January, it was accepted by 74 of the top 100 U.S. merchants, and 65 percent of all retail locations across the country.
JCPenney tells us it will seek to implement EMV contactless at a later date.
Facebook today announced that it has made its first major API contribution to Googles Chrome browser.
Together with Google, Facebooks team created an API proposal to contribute code to the browser, which is a first for the company.
The code, like so much of Facebooks work on web tools and standards, focuses on making the user experience a bit smoother and faster.
In this case, that means shortening the time between a click or keystroke and the browser reacting to that.
The first trial for this new system will launch with Chrome 74.
Typically, a browsers JavaScript engine handles how code is executed and when it will halt for a moment to see if there are any pending input events to which it needs to react.
Because even modern JavaScript engines that run on multi-core machines are still essentially single-threaded, the engine can only really do one thing at a time, so the trick is to figure out how to best combine code execution with checking for input events.
Like many other sites, we deal with this issue by breaking the JavaScript up into smaller blocks.
While the page is loading, we run a bit of JavaScript, and then we yield and pass control back to the browser, the Facebook team explains in todays announcement.
The browser can then check its input event queue and see whether there is anything it needs to tell the page about.
Then the browser can go back to running the JavaScript blocks as they get added.
Every time the browser goes through that cycle, though, and checks for new events, processes them, a bit of extra time passes.
You do this too many times and loading the page slows down.
But if you only check for inputs at slower intervals, the user experience degrades as the browser takes longer to react.
To fix this, Facebooks engineers created the isInputPending API, which eliminates this trade-off.
The API, which Facebook also brought to the W3C Web Performance Working Group, allows developers to check whether there are any inputs pending while their code is executing.
With this, the code simply checks if theres something to react to, without having to fully yield control back to the browser and then passing it back to the JavaScript engine.
For now this is just a trial and because developers must integrate this into their code, its not something that will automatically speed up your browser once Chrome 74 launches.
If the trial is successful, though, chances are developers will make use of it (and Facebook surely will do so itself) and that other browser vendors will integrate into through their own engines, too.
The process of bringing isInputPending to Chrome represents a new method of developing web standards at Facebook, the team says.
We hope to continue driving new APIs and to ramp up our contributions to open source web browsers.
Down the road, we could potentially build this API directly into Reacts concurrent mode so developers would get the API benefits out of the box.
In addition, isInputPending is now part of a larger effort to build scheduling primitives into the web.
Cyrus Summerlin and Max Hellerstein, who previously created the Push for Pizza app (which allowed users to order a pizza with the push of a button), are officially launching their new startup today, Down to Shop.
The app bills itself as both a modern reinvention of QVC and the funnest way to shop.
It allows users to watch funny videos featuring products that can be purchased directly from the app.
In an email, Hellerstein said the pair created Down to Shop out of dissatisfaction with existing advertising and e-commerce.
Summerlin described it as a hypermedia commerce platform.
Weve created a self-aware, fun and entertaining, interactive environment that gets customers to engage with brands like never before because they want to, Summerlin said.
What a concept!
To do this, Down to Shop says it has recruited a creative team of Upright Citizens Brigade alums and Instagram influencers to star in its shows, which are written, filmed and edited in the startups Los Angeles studios.
The content is built around four-week seasons, with daily episodes across five shows each season.
You can download the iOS app now, then swipe through different videos and games.
Judging from the videos available at launch, the app is holding true to its promise of content first, advertising second, with laid-back, tongue-in-cheek shows that also happen to feature promoted products.
By playing games and watching videos, you also earn Clout, the in-app currency that be used to make purchases.
As for the products available to purchase, the company says its already working with more than 60 brands, including Sustain Condoms, Dirty Lemon (water) and Pretty Litter (cat litter).
Down to Shops investors include Greycroft, Lerer Hippeau and Firstmark.
The startup isnt disclosing the size of its funding, but according a regulatory filing, it raised $5.9 million last fall.
Its the embodiment of a saucy spy thriller.
Questions continue to swirl around Chinese woman Yujing Zhang, who was arrested on March 30 on the grounds of President Trumps Florida abode, Mar-a-Lago.
Her story suspiciously changed between security checkpoints, and she was in possession of two passports, four cellphones, a laptop, an external hard drive and a thumb drive that authorities later claimed contained malware.
Moreover, more than $8,000 in U.S. and Chinese currency was discovered in her hotel room nearby.
Denied bail and still behind bars, federal authorities continue to dig deep.
The Mar-a-Lago incident should be a wakeup call to all businesses and politicians that theft of digital assets does not just happen from nameless, faceless people an ocean away, Theresa Payton, founder, and CEO of business and government protection agency, Fortalice Solutions told Fox News, via email.
Whether or not this was an independent attempted cybercrime or espionage, it should serve as a stark reminder that strong operational security is absolutely essential.
Indeed, the strange case of Zhang is hardly the first possible Chinese spook story to hit the headlines in recent times, with dozens of individuals over the past two decades being charged in the U.S. with espionage at the behest of the People's Republic of China.
Just last week, New York woman Ying Lin who worked for Air China plead guilty to working as an agent for the Chinese government by placing unscreened packages on Beijing-bound flights as mandated by Chinese military personnel stationed at Chinas permanent UN mission.
Last October, the Justice Department unsealed new charges against ten Chinese hackers and officers, accused of taking part in a years-long and broad scheme aimed at stealing secrets and tradecraft from various fields.
US SPEAKS UP FOR MINORITY MUSLIM UIGHURS IN CHINA - WHILE ISLAMIC COUNTRIES STAY MOSTLY SILENT But what do Chinese spies ultimately want from ordinary and not-so-ordinary Americans?
A decade ago, the goal was more narrow.
Efforts were focused on government espionage and intellectual property theft.
Now, China and other nation-states cast a wide net, Payton said.
They have learned that all information gathering can be useful, whether the end goal is espionage theft and exploitation of intellectual property or political influence.
According to Michael Biggs, founder and chairman of Centurions Alliance Group a global tier-one tactical training and security firm its all about securing cutting edge recipes.
He pointed to a recent case of a prominent athletic apparel company in the U.S., which he declined to name, whereby the research and development company had just developed its new clothing line that was slated for later release.
Then, the (Chief Financial Officer) while on a trip to Asia saw the very same apparel already being sold as cheap knockoffs by street vendors, Biggs contended.
A hostile group had tapped someones phone and pulled the images off, and then reproduced the line in China.
Very fast job, no evidence left behind.
A huge dollar loss for that company.
While the likes of Larry Johnson, CEO of security firm CyberSponse and a 24-year veteran of the U.S. Secret Service views the Mar-a-Lago incident as being too unsophisticated and poorly planned to have been state-sanctioned, he stressed that the official Chinese espionage goals are as pronounced as ever.
The Chinese rise to global power is dependent largely on espionage and theft of U.S. and western technologies.
The United States is the yardstick against which they measure themselves, he told Fox News.
They want to gather intelligence for any sort of competitive advantage they can obtain be it industrial secrets, trade secrets, political insights, military, you name it.
Basically, anything they can get their hands on.
And that makes all Americans ripe for targeting, experts caution.
The most vulnerable targets are not computers, but people.
Human intelligence gathering is an art, Biggs said.
Its about taking advantage of peoples vulnerabilities, no matter what they are, to get the information.
And the arsenal to do so is said to be wide-ranging, from IP intercept, ISMI catchers, dumpster diving, listening devices (bugs) and informants, to students at universities, Chinese businesses and their employees, Johnson asserted.
Very often, the Chinese use phishing emails to make the initial breach.
However, they have highly skilled cyber teams which can also find and exploit network or software vulnerabilities, including the exploitation of zero-day flaws, he continued, referring to a software security flaw that is known to the vendor but has yet to have been patched or guarded against.
Things to watch for, observed Carlos Perez research and development practice lead for information technology consultants TrustedSec are primarily phishing emails, USB drives left around waiting for a curious person to plug and even phone calls where a person is tricked into downloading and running a piece of software on ones behalf.
There is also the issue of boots-on-the-ground recruitment.
China has trained spies here with the responsibility to spot, assess, develop, recruit and handle individuals with placement and access in key areas of government and industry, noted Andrew Lewis, President of private intelligence firm The Ulysses Group, emphasizing that university-based networks are responsible for quite a bit of the information and intellectual property China collects from the U.S. INTERNET BOTS ARE GETTING SMARTER AND IMITATING PEOPLE In December, Bill Priestap Assistant Director, Counterintelligence Division for the FBI, testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee, elucidating that China uses unconventional, economic espionage as a component part of a comprehensive strategy to promote Chinas high-tech industries.
Priestap claimed that China is by far the most active practitioner of economic espionage today, and its economic espionage alone costs the U.S as much as $600 billion annually.
He also illuminated the risks that universities and colleges pose, both in the sense that they are targeted for their cutting-edge research and technological development and they serve as an abundant grounds for spies to intimidate Chinese students and professors critical of the countrys policies, and shape academics in their favor.
They combine this with an aggressive cyber-espionage effort, Lewis said.
They want to have a much more active role in defining the international order and ensure it reflects Chinese interests.
GET THE FOX NEWS APP And in his view, even homegrown technology companies are moving more towards the firing line in exchange for their own bottom line.
Agribusiness, financials, chip makers, aerospace China is working to exploit the recent 737 incident in an effort to undercut Boeing and enhance their budding aerospace desires, he claimed.
All of our giant tech companies are significant targets, (some) are deciding to end contracts with the government in exchange to access the Chinese market.
The components or outsourced labor can and have been found to be faulty in the past.
Samsung is delaying the launch of $1,980 Galaxy Fold device until at least next month, according to a report from The Wall Street Journal.
Originally set to launch on Friday, Samsung will push back the rollout of its much-hyped folding smartphone by several weeks in the wake of numerous device malfunctions in units provided to several product reviewers.
A new official release date has not yet been announced.
The report comes hours after Samsung postponed an April 24 China launch event for the Galaxy Fold.
Tech reviewers reported several issues with the review units, including bulges in the OLED screen around the hinge area, and screen malfunctions after some users peeled off a top protective layer of the screen.
Samsung said it will make clear to customers not to remove the top layer, which looks like little more than a screen protector.
Samsung has not yet publicly commented on the delayed US launch.
This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.
Its a sad state of affairs that so many social media users tend to base self-worth on how many likes their post garners, but Instagram the platform of choice for todays cultural influencers may be trying to change that.
App engineer Jane Manchun Wong tweeted some interesting information she uncovered Thursday while parsing Instagrams back-end.
Apparently, The Gram has a setting written in its code that would hide the like count from audiences, making them only visible to the user who shared the post.
We want your followers to focus on what you share, not how many likes your posts get, a notification from Instagram reads.
During this test, only the person who shared a post will see the total number of likes it gets.
Instagram says they have no plans to launch the feature just yet.
Were not testing this at the moment, but exploring ways to reduce pressure on Instagram is something were always thinking about, an Instagram spokesperson tells The Verge.
Nevertheless, the timing of the discovering is intriguing: Earlier this week, the Information Commissioners Office, a data watchdog agency in the UK, suggested that social media networks refrain from using nudge techniques, such as the like button, which encourages kids to share more and more of what could be private and sensitive information about themselves.
For many, hidden likes could provide some peace of mind: No more obsessively checking your phone for notifications after a post, or lamenting that not enough of your followers appreciates your internet presence.
But for those whose entire career is hinged on a follower count, social engagement and, yes, likes, the change could transform how influencers measure their value to brands.
I think it would affect my business, says beauty influencer Nanite Jean-Aimee, whose account @melaninmakeup has some 12,200 followers.
The more engagement you have the higher chance of you getting more sponsorships and collaborations.
Jean-Aimee says many users will buy faux followers (who do not like or comment on posts) to attract lax brands that dont take their time to really analyze engagement in relation to followers pointing out that users with tens of thousands of followers but only a few hundred likes is usually red-flag for a bought audience.
But for her, audience interaction is a big selling point.
Many brands work with me because of my engagement, she tells The Post.
I know quite a few people with half my following working with big brands because they get like 1,000 likes per post.
Dara Pollaks brand @skinnypignyc boasts nearly 100,000 followers, but she doesnt seem as concerned.
In fact, she suggests that the change could be good for business.
If a brand wants to know what your likes are, they can ask you for a screenshot which is something they do already for stories, impressions, etc, she tells The Post, adding that it could help even out the playing field among influencers.
The brand [will have to] do a bit more research into who is representing them instead of picking only the ones with high numbers, says Pollak.
Her hope is that the change would give Instagram culture something its so desperately lacked lately: authenticity.
This story originally appeared in the New York Post.
The Army and the Air Force are crafting a new combined air-ground combat attack strategy to improve warfare networks, perform long-range sensing of targets, strike enemies more effectively and strengthen defenses across multiple domains in real-time.
The Army-Air Force collaboration, called "Multi-Domain Operations," has included in-depth joint-service wargames; it is ultimately aimed at developing new doctrine, service leaders explained.
A new Army-Air Force collaborative war strategy is, broadly speaking, discussed in terms of being a modern, or new iteration of the Cold War-era "AirLand Battle" strategy.
AirLand Battle, which envisioned air-ground warfare synergy to counter a Soviet threat on the European continent, was intended to provide air cover for advancing land attack units confronting a larger Soviet Army.
Flying in close proximity land forces, air assets were intended to attack advancing ground units, weaken supply lines or destroy troop fortifications, clearing the way for offensive operations.
While these objectives are of course still important, the currently emerging Air-Land cross-domain doctrine is based upon the reality that modern air and ground forces are more dispersed - and therefore more threatening.
Ground forces are now more vulnerable to longer-range air and missile strikes, drone attacks and guided weapons able to strike from high-altitudes.
NEW 40MM CANNON ON MARINE CORP AMPHIBIOUS COMBAT VEHICLE DESTROYS DRONES, PICKUP TRUCKS This new concept, when it comes to technical application, involves a fundamental shift toward using information itself as a principal weapon in warfare operations.
The tactical use of information to organize and enable effective combat involves a range of tactics -- such as using air-assets as nodes across a larger air-ground combat scheme, firing ground weapons to attack enemy air defenses and leveraging the altitude and range of surveillance aircraft to pinpoint targets for land-based attacks.
Will a sensor identifying target be land-based, air, or space?
The longer the range, the less likely it will be a land-based sensor, a senior Army official told Warrior in an interview earlier this year- referring to the emerging doctrinal effort.
Much of the collaborative activity, the senior official described, involves the Armys Training and Doctrine Command and the Air Forces Air Combat Command.
As part of the joint effort to pursue these aims, the Army Fires Center of Excellence has implemented a joint fires certification element.
Of course, the Army and the Air Force already have a history of successful warfare integration, including air-ground coordination in places like Iraq and Afghanistan.
US Special Forces, the Air Force Special Tactics Squadron and strategically placed Joint Tactical Air Controllers have long identified ground-target coordinates for air attacks, often using land-based laser rangefinders to paint targets for fighter jets.
The emerging Army-Air Force approach seeks to move well beyond these existing tactics to extend the range, power and multi-domain effectiveness of combat operations, to include cyber, space and electromagnetic domains.
MARINE CORPS FIRES WEAPONS AT ITS NEW AMPHIBIOUS COMBAT VEHICLE While explaining some specifics of the Air Force contribution to this initiative, retired Lt. Gen. David Deptula said establishing a dispersed, multi-domain, inter-service warfare network presents a difficult concept for an enemy to attack.
This concept, placing information itself as indispensable connective tissue to networked cross-domain warfare, is further developed by Deptula in a Mitchell Institute policy paper called Evolving Technologies and Warfare in the 21st Century: Introducing the Combat Cloud.
The essence of the combat cloud, the paper explains, resides in the concept that each system or platform in a warfare scenario is itself a node across a wide-spanning combat network.
The combat cloud inverts the paradigm of combined arms warfare making information the focal point, not operational domains.
This concept represents an evolution where individually networked platformsin any domaintransform into a system of systems enterprise, the paper writes.
For example, many land weapons such as Guided Multiple-Launch Rocket Systems, and artillery often max out at ranges of 70-to-90 km in many cases.
The land-fired High Mobility Rocket System (HIMARS) is reported to have a maximum range of up to 300 km.
However, having a 300 km range for HIMARS does not mean targets can be properly identified or targeted at that distance.
AIR FORCE TO TEST FIRE FIGHTER JET-CONFIGURED LASER WEAPONS POD FROM THE GROUND Many fighter jets, bombers, drones and surveillance planes, however, can travel as far as 500 nautical miles in some cases without needing to refuel.
These ranges for air platforms, when networked or integrated with land-weapons, can exponentially increase the sphere of potential air-ground attacks and reconnaissance missions.
The vision with this, Deptula explained, is to form an expanded self-healing warfare network.
If an enemy takes out a few aircraft, the information is already re-routed to the rest of the elements, Deptula said in an interview with Warrior earlier this year.
Within this conceptual framework, the combat cloud can use dispersed, long-range air assets as sensor nodes operating in tandem with land weapons.
The Armys developing a Long-Range Precision Fires weapon engineered to hit targets as far away as 500 km.
It is a land weapon being engineered to support this concept and expand the Armys strike range; this appears to offer an example of how land weapons could potentially be given targets over great distances by networked air platforms.
Along these lines, senior Army weapons developers often refer to LRPF as a high-priority program now being accelerated.
A vastly expanded air-ground attack network, Deptula added, could very well extend to include weapons engagement authority implemented by air nodes at great distances.
A more dispersed attack scheme, fortified by long-range weapons and sensors, can hold previously inaccessible targets at risk.
An airborne F-35 fighter could, for instance, use its drone-like sensors to acquire a target seemingly out of reach for land-launched missiles and provide the Army weapons with target specifics.
Even further, an F-35 might be engineered to cue or even launch ground weapons at a target it identifies.
Deptula cited this example in terms of Air Force-Navy synergy.
AIR FORCE CLOUD MIGRATION FIGHTS AI-ENABLED CYBERATTACKS If an F-35 detects an enemy missile launch before an Aegis cruiser, the F-35 could engage and launch the interceptor missile that comes off of that Aegis cruiser, he explained.
We cant do this yet today, but this is where we need to be doing collective thinking about this vision as a common vision.
-- From the Mitchell Institute Policy Paper individual platforms are evolving from a stove piped, parochial service alignment, to a loosely federated joint and combined construct today, and eventually into a highly integrated enterprise that collaboratively leverages the broad exchange of information.
Desired effects will increasingly be attained through the interaction of multiple systems, each one sharing information and empowering one another for a common purpose.
Given the fast-growing need for these kinds of expanded attack options, the military is working with industry on a range of technical ways to bring broader, cross-domain networks to fruition.
One aerospace firm, called MAG Aerospace, is working with the Air Force, Air Force Special Operations Command, the Air Force Research Lab and various Army entities to explore next generation networking systems able to connect soldier-wearable, airborne and vehicle-based ISR systems.
This includes leveraging commercial Very Low Earth Orbit (vLEO) satellite broadband communications pioneered by industry and the AFRL, Chad Vuyovich, Director of MAGs AFSOC Programs, told Warrior Maven.
In a manner analogous to Deptulas description of self-healing networks, Vuyovich said low latency, high-bandwidth vLEO technologies will similarly form self-healing, ad hoc networks.
These are globally accessible and will interface with military unique, private 4G/5G, and other standard Wi-Fi networks.
Data will be passed and processed across multiple internet protocol over radio (IPOR) data networks and global constellations, Vuyovich said.
AIR FORCE ARMS B-52 BOMBERS WITH PROTOTYPE NUCLEAR-ARMED CRUISE MISSILES All of this military planning takes place within the often-discussed context of great power competition, near-peer threats, and preparations for major power warfare.
With this in mind, senior US officials have consistently cited concerns about advanced Russian tactics and technologies used during its attacks in Ukraine - with a specific mind to cross-domain, air-ground attacks.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In Ukraine, we saw the pairing of drones with artillery to use drones as spotters.
Their organizational structure and tactics were a wakeup call for us to start looking at that in a more serious way, Gen. John M. Murray, Commanding General of Army Futures Command, told reporters last Fall at the Association of the United States Army Annual Symposium.
-More Weapons and Technology -WARRIOR MAVEN (CLICK HERE)--
Facebook on Thursday revealed that it accidentally stored "millions" of Instagram user passwords in plain text.
The disclosure comes a month after it admitted to accidentally storing "hundreds of millions" of unencrypted user passwords on the social network's internal servers.
At the time, Facebook said the problem only affected "tens of thousands" of Instagram users.
But it was wrong.
"We now estimate that this issue impacted millions of Instagram users.
We will be notifying these users as we did the others," Facebook said in an update to its original post on the incident.
How many users were affected isn't clear.
The company told PCMag it doesn't have precise numbers to share.
"This is an issue that has already been widely reported, but we want to be clear that we simply learned there were more passwords stored in this way," a Facebook spokesperson said in an email.
According to Facebook, the company has uncovered no evidence of abuse or leaks with the stored credentials.
Still, it's a good idea for affected users to change their passwords to stay safe.
Under the best security practices, companies should be storing passwords not in plain text, but through a method called hashing, which can effectively scramble the sensitive data into an unreadable format.
So in the event a breach occurs, the hashing can prevent, or at least delay, a hacker from quickly exploiting the data.
So far, Facebook hasn't revealed how long it had been storing the Instagram passwords in plain text, what caused it, or how many employees may have had access to the information.
For added protection, Instagram users can consider activating two-factor authentication on their account, which will prevent unauthorized logins in the event a hacker successfully guesses or steals their password.
This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.
Bots are becoming a bigger threat as they get smarter, a new report says.
A whopping 73.6 percent of bad bots are so-called Advanced Persistent Bots, which use anonymous proxies, change their identities and mimic human behavior, according to the 2019 Bad Bot Report from Distil Networks, which provides Web content protection services.
The growing pool of hacked credentials, or sensitive data, is a windfall for bad bot operators.
Every new data breach sees an increased availability of credentials and leads to higher volumes of bad bot traffic, Distil said.
With over 14 billion credentials stolen since 2013, the problem is...only getting worse.
5G IS A BIGGER DEAL AND CHINA IS A BIGGER THREAT THAN YOU THINK, THINK TANK SAYS What characterizes a bad bot exactly?
A bot, generally, is software that runs automated tasks or scripts.
The typical bad bot scrapes data from sites without permission in order to reuse it, usually to gain a competitive edge, the report said.
But the really bad bots are part of criminal enterprises, such as fraud and theft.
Good bots, on the other hand, are innocuous search engine crawlers such as GoogleBot that, via indexing, help people match their queries with the most relevant websites.
Getting smarter Sophisticated bad bots reproduce mouse movements and clicks that fool even sophisticated detection methods and mask their activity by reverse engineering detection systems, Distil said.
Advanced attackers now show definitive behavior that they know about the technology theyre trying to defeat, and theyre continuously learning how to adapt their tactics, the study said.
Financial services companies have the highest percentage of bad bots, with these companies typically getting hit by bots attempting to access user accounts, Distil said.
Other industries that are adversely affected are: Ticketing, where bots influence ticket prices and seat inventory.
The government, which deals with election bots that attempt to interfere with voter registration accounts; Airlines, which contend with price scraping bots from competitors.
E-commerce companies are targets of price scraping, content scraping, account takeovers, credit card fraud and gift card abuse.
In 2019, the U.S. topped the list of bad bot originating countries for the fifth straight year.
It remains the only bad bot superpower, from which more than half (53.4 percent) of all bad bot traffic originates, Distil added in its report.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
Find Hidden Cameras Q: I keep hearing about hidden cameras in AirBnb rentals.
Is there a trick to spotting hidden spy cameras?
A: A secret camera hidden in your private quarters is a nightmare situation, especially when you're on vacation, and you're supposed to be relaxing.
Reports have grown incrementally with each passing year, and the danger is quite real.
There is a lot to love about Airbnb, especially if you're the kind of traveler who likes to feel like a local.
I sympathize because when I traveled as a kid, my parents preferred to rent apartments rather than stay in hotels.
There is a price to all that authenticity; the same miniature cameras that make many of us feel safe can also be used for nefarious purposes, and any amateur host has the potential to be a peeping tom.
So how do you track down a camera that is designed to be undetectable?
Tap or click here to find those sketchy cameras.
Photoshop Alternatives Q: Photoshop is so expensive.
What else can I use thats like it?
A: Photoshop is expensive, but there's a reason for this.
For decades, Adobe products have been the standard for designers and creative professionals.
Each program provides a universe of options, giving users unspeakable power over every project.
Once you climb aboard the Adobe wagon, it's tough to get off, since the programs are often integrated.
Still, the Adobe family has never been cheap, even if you subscribe to the monthly Creative Cloud service, and not everyone finds Adobe products intuitive or useful.
Some of us want the tools without all the extra bells and whistles.
Luckily, in the case of Photoshop, some alternatives might suit you better.
Tap or click here for free alternatives to Photoshop.
Get My Free Newsletters Q: Do you have any free newsletters for the latest tech news and DIY tips?
Id love to get them!
A: I actually have many newsletters, because technology is a big field, and one newsletter could ever cover such a range of subjects.
You can sign up for Tech News Today, which is a roundup of all the big picture stories; most people start with this one, so they get the broadest information possible.
But there are separate newsletters for Apple products, Android products, DIY Hacks and How-Tos, Small Business Tips, and one of my favorites a weekly Travel dispatch, which explains how tech can help you see the world.
Most fans end up subscribing to more than one.
Tap or click here to subscribe to my newsletters.
Apple Watch Life-Saving Q: My husband has a high calcium score.
Would an Apple Watch detect a heart attack?
A: I'm glad you're thinking about how technology can help.
About a decade ago, millions of people were investing in fitness trackers like Garmin and Fitbit, which were cutting-edge consumer tech at the time.
True to their name, fitness trackers collected data on your physical movements and analyzed it through an app on your phone.
Now, Apple Watch (and other brands of smartwatch) have advanced the functionality of a fitness watch, and these devices have been credited with saving lives.
The EKG monitor and "fall" alerts are helping people through emergencies, and those are just a couple of their many cool features.
The Apple Watch will not detect a heart attack.
Tap or click here to learn how Apple Watch monitors your health.
Apple Viruses Q: I have a Mac.
Do they get viruses like Windows PCs?
A: No matter what Mac-addicts may tell you, your computer is quite vulnerable to the right malware, ransomware, or any other type of invasive program, and believe me, this is not a lesson you want to learn the hard way.
Its true that viruses can infect Windows systems more easily, but assuming that your Apple network is invincible is a significant mistake.
So you're wise to ask about this particular kind of security risk, because many people may not even realize that anti-virus software exists, and I strongly suggest investing in it as soon as you can.
Tap or click here for the best antivirus programs for your Mac.
What digital lifestyle questions do you have?
Call her national radio show and tap or click here to find it on your local radio station.
You can listen to or watch the Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet, television or computer.
Or tap or click here for Kim's free podcasts.
Copyright 2019, WestStar Multimedia Entertainment.
All rights reserved.
Learn about all the latest technology on the Kim Komando Show, the nation's largest weekend radio talk show.
Kim takes calls and dispenses advice on today's digital lifestyle, from smartphones and tablets to online privacy and data hacks.
For her daily tips, free newsletters and more, visit her website at Komando.com.
Phone scammers are making make more money than ever and their easiest targets are millennials and men, according to a new report.
Americans have lost an estimated $10.5 billion to phone scams in the last 12 months, up from $8.9 billion in the previous 12 month period, according to a report from Truecaller, a caller ID and spam call blocking app.
In Truecallers fifth annual survey, men and millennials are the most likely to lose money to a phone scam, particularly men between the ages of 18 and 34.
DANGEROUS ANDROID MALWARE COMES TO IPHONE Weve noticed in recent years that the data continuously reveals that men, particularly millennial-aged men, are the most vulnerable to phone scams, Truecaller told Fox News in an email.
This shows that despite millennials growing up surrounded by technology, truly anyone can be a victim when it comes to a phone scam.
And the odds are increasing.
Almost 1 in 6 Americans report losing money to scams over the last 12 months compared to 1 in 10 in the previous period, Truecaller said.
Of those scammed, the average loss was $244 per victim.
An increase in persistent spam calls is one factor behind the numbers, up 39 percent from the previous 12 month period, Truecaller added.
In the most recent 12 month period, spam calls averaged 32 per month (while spam text messages average 11 per month), compared to 23 calls in the prior period.
Most of those were robocalls, according to the report.
That comes to approximately 97.2 billion spam-related calls and more than 33.4 billion spam texts, in the U.S. alone.
Scams claiming great deals such as low-interest loans and better credit card rates were the most common scam in the past 12 months.
But over half of Americans receive negative unsolicited calls, including problems with account or you owe money or political calls.
People avoid phone calls In order to avoid speaking on the phone, over half of Americans, 55 percent, prefer to use text, social media apps and email, the report said.
This figure jumps among younger Americans (ages 18-34), with 73 percent saying they favor other forms of communication to avoid talking on the phone.
That's much higher than for older Americans (55+), who don't shy away from speaking on the phone nearly as much.
Despite the heightened awareness of scam/spam calls, the sophistication in which people are being scammed has skyrocketed with new technology being developed, such as AI and voice recognition, Truecaller told Fox News.
Scammers are able to reach so many people, and the data shows that many of these people are falling victim not only once, but several times.
Robocalls also have the ability to call thousands, if not millions, of people at once - so Americans are getting hit at a much larger scale that shows no sign of slowing down, Truecaller added.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
Let me be frank: I only keep a Facebook account to engage with listeners of my national radio show.
I dont use my personal account.
I stepped away from the social media platform, and I never looked back.
I think everyone should take a social media break from time to time.
Its good for your mind and well-being.
Tap or click here for research that says taking a break from Facebook can actually make you feel happier about your life.
That said, I understand why people still use Facebook.
They want to feel connected.
They might be lonely.
If they didnt have Facebook, theyd likely be involved in some other form of social media, like Twitter or Instagram.
I dont judge people who stay.
The key is to maintain real-world connections.
Here are some time-tested ways to foster your flesh-and-blood social network.
I do want to make sure your privacy is protected.
Like many tech giants, Facebook actively collects information about you and uses this data for targeted advertising.
Youve seen this before: an ad closely mirrors your recent searches, even on different websites.
Using cookies, information gets shared, and it gives you the impression that the internet is reading your mind, watching your screen, and listening to your conversations.
Those arent the only ones stalking you through social media.
Cybercriminals love Facebook, and here are the many reasons why.
How do you stop targeted ads?
By digging into your settings the settings you have full access to, but Facebook would rather you didnt know about.
Adjust your Facebook ad preferences You can do the following on Facebooks desktop website, and you can also access ad preferences through your Facebook app.
From the site, click the on the downward arrow in the upper corner and click on Settings.
Click on Ads on the left side.
This opens the "Your ad preferences page."
Lets start with the Your Interests section.
Click on this to see a list of topics Facebook thinks youre interested in based on your activity.
For example, my interests included everything from Colorado to plant nurseries.
You can hide ads associated with an interest by hovering over it and clicking on the X in the box.
Once youve reviewed your interests, check out the Advertisers section.
This works just like interests.
You can choose to hide ads from particular advertisers, which is useful if you're annoyed by a specific ad popping up all the time in your feed.
Tweak the information Facebook uses to target ads The next section on tap is called Your information.
This is the data Facebook uses to help advertisers target ads at you.
The categories include relationship status, employer, job title and education.
The toggle switches on the side let you choose whether or not to allow advertisers to use these.
Feel free to turn them all off.
Also, take a peek at "Your categories" in this same section.
You can nix these as well by clicking on the X.
Adjust your Facebook ad settings The previous sections of your ad preferences are interesting, but now were getting to the big guns.
Click on the Ad settings section to expand it.
Here is where we can make substantial changes to throw targeted advertisers off your tracks.
Ads based on data from partners: If you already see the words Not allowed" here, then youre good to go.
Otherwise, expand this setting, which controls "ads based on data we receive from partners about your offline activity."
Yeah, that does sound a little creepy.
In the drop-down box, choose Not allowed.
Ads based on your activity on Facebook Company Products that you see elsewhere: This section applies to websites, apps, and device that use Facebook's services to serve up ads outside of Facebook.
This is why you might see the same ads lurking on both Facebook and seemingly unrelated websites.
Look for the drop-down menu at the bottom and select "Not allowed."
Ads that include your social actions: This setting lets you control whether or not Facebook can use your activity in ads aimed at other people.
For example, a Facebook friend might see an ad for a page that youve liked on the service.
The two options in the drop-down menu here are "Only my friends" or "No One."
Choose "No One" to keep yourself out of these sorts of ads.
Theres one final section to your ad preferences settings.
Hide ad topics lets you block ads related to the potentially sensitive issues of alcohol, parenting or pets.
You can choose to hide these for six months, a whole year or permanently.
While some people are choosing to ditch Facebook, there are also some compelling reasons to stay.
If youre in the stay camp, then you can make the experience more comfortable by adjusting your advertising preferences.
Following these steps wont stop ads, but at least you wont see the same pair of shoes tracking your every move, begging you to buy them.
What digital lifestyle questions do you have?
Call Kims national radio show and tap or click here to find it on your local radio station.
You can listen to or watch the Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet, television or computer.
Or tap or click here for Kim's free podcasts.
Copyright 2019, WestStar Multimedia Entertainment.
All rights reserved.
Learn about all the latest technology on the Kim Komando Show, the nation's largest weekend radio talk show.
Kim takes calls and dispenses advice on today's digital lifestyle, from smartphones and tablets to online privacy and data hacks.
For her daily tips, free newsletters and more, visit her website at Komando.com.
The devastating fire at Notre Dame caused significant damage to the famed structure, causing the spire to topple and gutting the inside of the Cathedral.
There's now an international competition aimed at finding the best way to repair and restore Notre Dame, but those architects and engineers could be getting some unlikely help - from a popular video game.
It's a classic case of art imitating life- using gaming.
Ubisoft Game studio makes the massively popular "Assassin's Creed" series, and they're well-known for using real-life historical sites during game play, which is often based on real-life historical movements or events.
And now the game's eighth installment, "Unity", is a potential source for help in restoring the centuries-old Cathedral.
The 2014 game is set during the French Revolution, and centers around Notre Dame, which was painstakingly re-created for use in game play.
The artist in charge says she took around two years to build a detailed model of the building, which she calls a brick-by-brick digital recreation - even including most of the artwork found inside.
It's significantly more detailed than a laser scan, and some experts are now saying the model could represent the best chance for architects to study the original construction.
Ubisoft is acknowledging the game's debt to Notre Dame, offering "United" for free on its online store for a week after the fire.
The studio is also donating 500,000 Euros to help with the restoration, writing in a statement, "As the smoke clears on the events that unfolded on Monday at the Notre-Dame de Paris, we stand in solidarit with our fellow Parisians and everyone around the world moved by the devastation the fire caused."
Samsung's decision to delay the release of the nearly $2,000 foldable phone will hurt its brand reputation in the short term, but the flagging smartphone industry is still betting on the tech giant to produce a winner, analysts said Tuesday.
The South Korean electronics firm was set to launch its Galaxy Fold smartphone on April 26.
After some reviewers, including CNBC's Todd Haselton, encountered issues with early testing units, Samsung said Monday the phone "needs further improvements" before it's released to customers.
The company added that a new release date will be announced "in the coming weeks."
Samsung shares traded down 0.33% Tuesday afternoon, tracking below the South Korean benchmark index, Kospi, which traded near flat.
If the phone's launch is delayed for too long, it will be a cause for concern among stakeholders, according to Daniel Yoo, head of global strategy and research at Kiwoom Securities.
He told CNBC by email that Samsung's flagship Galaxy S10 is seen as a "very satisfactory" device, but the launch of the foldable phone will determine if the world's largest smartphone maker can remain a leader in the sector and continue to play an important role in technology advancement.
"I expect Samsung to solve all the problems before the newly announced official launch date, and the date will be most likely before the end of 2Q2019," he said, referring to the three months that will end in June.
"I doubt that the delay will be for long period of time given it had experience of Note 7 launch."
Bob O'Donnell, president, founder and chief analyst at Technalysis Research, told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Tuesday that the delay will hit Samsung's brand.
"Granted, it's going to hit the brand, but I don't think it's a killer.
It's not like the Note 7 battery issue or anything like that," he said, adding the smartphone giant needs "to get this right."
In 2016, Samsung experienced one of the worst technology recalls in recent times after some of its faulty Galaxy Note 7 devices suffered battery malfunctions and spontaneously caught fire.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk said that the company should have robotaxis on the roads in 2020.
"I feel very confident predicting autonomous robotaxis for Tesla next year," Musk said on stage at the Tesla Autonomy Investor Day in Palo Alto, California.
They won't be "in all jurisdictions, because we won't have regulatory approval everywhere, but I am confident we will have at least regulatory approval somewhere, literally next year," he said.
Musk based his optimism on the amount of data his company is able to gather from Tesla vehicles already on the road today, which it then uses to improve its software.
All Tesla cars being produced today have the hardware on board that's required for full self-driving, Musk said, promising that, "all you need to do is improve the software."
Musk also predicted that in two years, Tesla will be making cars with no steering wheels or pedals.
While the CEO repeated that Tesla will have over 1 million robotaxis on the road next year, and he expects to be "operating robotaxis next year with no one in them," he did also warn investors, "Sometimes I am not on time, but I get it done."
In the past, Elon Musk's forecasts for Tesla have missed the mark.
Tesla was two years late with the launch of the Model X, its first all-electric SUV.
And it was two years late in delivering semi-autonomous features to eager drivers.
When Tesla began to discuss its ambitions in self-driving technology in 2016, Musk said they would conduct a hands-free trip across the US by late 2017.
They have yet to complete that mission.
Musk and a Tesla Director, Pete Bannon, who is a former Apple exec, showed off Tesla's latest chips emphasizing how they were designed to process massive amounts of data quickly, without significantly heating up, or draining the vehicles' batteries.
Bannon claimed the chips can potentially perform 7 times better than a competing product from Nvidia, in reference to its Xavier chips.
Nvidia said in a statement that Tesla misstated details about its Xavier chips, which offer 30 TOPS, a measure of processing power (not 21 TOPS as Tesla claimed).
Nvidia also said Tesla's full self-driving computers compare directly to its Drive AGX Pegasus.
Tesla's new tech can provide 144 TOPS of processing power, and the Pegasus provides 320 TOPS, Nvidia said.
New chips already in development at Tesla are likely to arrive in two years, Musk and Bannon said.
The company is currently manufacturing its chips with Samsung in Austin, Texas they revealed.
Currently, Tesla offers Autopilot -- an advanced driver assistance system -- as a standard feature in its cars.
According to the company's website, Autopilot can automatically hold a car in its lane and accelerate or brake automatically, for example, in response to pedestrians or other cars in its way.
Tesla can improve Autopilot with new features (or bug fixes) over time via over-the-air updates, as well.
In addition, Tesla sells a "Full Self-Driving," or FSD, package for its vehicles for $5,000 or more if the software is installed after the vehicle is initially purchased.
FSD features today include "Summon," which lets a driver call their Tesla to roll out from a parking spot to where they are standing (with no driver on board).
And FSD lets drivers "Navigate on Autopilot," automatically driving their car from a highway on-ramp to an off-ramp, making necessary lane changes along the way.
Later this year, Tesla's website says, cars with FSD should be able to read and respond properly to traffic lights and stop signs, and drive automatically on city streets.
Even with FSD, Tesla's cars are not considered "driverless," meaning that they don't meet the SAE Level 4 standard used to denote a car that could handle every aspect of driving in some conditions without any human intervention.
Tesla also cautions its drivers, "Current Autopilot features require active driver supervision and do not make the vehicle autonomous."
In other words, while tempting, drivers aren't supposed to zone out, or drive hands-free even if they have Full Self-Driving.
Tesla and Musk have previously claimed that their cars are 40% safer than others when drivers have Autopilot engaged.
A NHTSA study Tesla cited to support that claim has been debunked by independent researchers, Quality Control Systems.
NHTSA has said it is reviewing QCS' findings.
There have been at least three fatal accidents in the US involving Tesla drivers with Autopilot engaged dating back to the death of Joshua Brown in Florida in 2106.
Tesla shares barely budged during the "Autonomy Day" event, and ended down about 4% for the day.
Facebook announced on Monday that it's bringing in a new general counsel and vice president of communications as it tries to rebuild its image following a year filled with scandals.
The company said Jennifer Newstead, the legal adviser to the U.S. State Department, is joining the company as its general counsel, replacing Colin Stretch, who said last year that he would be departing.
Facebook also named John Pinette as vice president of global communications, succeeding Caryn Marooney, who announced her plans to leave in February.
Newstead, who was confirmed by the Senate in December 2017, is a government veteran, having previously worked at the Office of Management and Budget, the Department of Justice and as an associate White House counsel.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo thanked Newstead for her service in a statement, without addressing where she was going.
A promotional video for camera maker Leica showing photojournalists covering global conflicts including the deadly Tiananmen Square protests in China in 1989 has resulted in the company's name being banned on Chinese social media and the marketer denying responsibility for the video.
The five-minute film is called "The Hunt."
It depicts photographers covering conflicts, including one capturing images of the "Tank Man," who stood in front of a convoy of Chinese military tanks the day after the Tiananmen Square massacre in which Chinese military attacked pro-democracy demonstrators.
That subject has been widely censored in China.
The video concludes with the image of Leica's logo.
The ad was released by Brazilian ad agency F/Nazca Saatchi & Saatchi, according to the South China Morning Post.
The agency told the publication it had developed the film with Leica representatives in Brazil and said it "would never harm its huge reputation by creating, producing and airing a work without the proper approval of its client."
The agency said it has worked with Leica in Brazil since 2012.
Leica told the Morning Post the video was not commissioned by the company.
Leica and F/Nazca did not immediately respond for requests for comment from CNBC.
By Friday morning, the Chinese social media site Weibo had banned the word "Leica" in Mandarin and English.
Some social media posters wondered whether Chinese tech giant Huawei, which works with Leica on smartphone camera lenses, would be pulled into the controversy.
Huawei declined to comment on the video.
Apple could release iPhones in 2020 equipped with 5G modems, according to research notes from TF International Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo.
The modems could be provided by both Qualcomm and Samsung, according to the research.
Access to 5G modem parts is one major reason why Apple settled a bitter legal battle withQualcomm last week.
A 5G-equipped iPhone with a faster and more reliable cellular internet connection could give consumers a reason to upgrade from older models as iPhone sales growth stalls.
Apple typically releases new iPhone models in September, so the 5G iPhone would not be released until at least September 2020.
The iPhones released this September will most likely support current-generation LTE networks instead.
From Kuo's note Monday: We expect Apple will likely adopt 5G baseband chips made by Qualcomm (focus on mmWave markets) and Samsung (focus on Sub-6GHz markets) for lowering supply risk, reducing costs and having better bargaining power.
Kuo said that the introduction of a 5G iPhone could spur a wave of upgrades and purchases, especially for high-end models:
Samsung has delayed the release of the Galaxy Fold past the original April 26 launch date, the company told CNBC in a statement.
Samsung said that the Galaxy Fold "needs further improvements" before it releases the phone to consumers, and that it will continue to evaluate feedback it received from reviewers and further test the phone.
Samsung said it will announce a new release date "in the coming weeks."
A spokesperson told CNBC that "no customer who pre-ordered the device is charged until the device actually ships" and that customers "are able to cancel at any time."
The Galaxy Fold is the first foldable phone to launch in the United States, but early review units, including one tested by CNBC, were breaking.
After just two days of use, the screen on CNBC's test unit began flickering and then stopped working completely.
Other reviewers noticed similar issues but had removed a protective film on top of the screen.
CNBC did not remove that film.
CNBC returned the device to Samsung, but the company has yet to explain why the unit broke.
Samsung said it looked at the units that broke and determined some had "substances" inside them that affected display performance.
It also said some devices were damaged by impacts around the hinge.
CNBC did not drop our test unit and did not expose it to any substances that could get inside the phone.
"We will take measures to strengthen the display protection.
We will also enhance the guidance on care and use of the display including the protective layer so that our customers get the most out of their Galaxy Fold," Samsung said in the staement.
Samsung began taking preorders for the $1,980 Galaxy Fold earlier this month.
The device will also be sold by Best Buy, AT&T, T-Mobile and Samsung store locations around the United States.
Here's the Samsung's full statement: We recently unveiled a completely new mobile category: a smartphone using multiple new technologies and materials to create a display that is flexible enough to fold.
We are encouraged by the excitement around the Galaxy Fold.
While many reviewers shared with us the vast potential they see, some also showed us how the device needs further improvements that could ensure the best possible user experience.
To fully evaluate this feedback and run further internal tests, we have decided to delay the release of the Galaxy Fold.
We plan to announce the release date in the coming weeks.
Initial findings from the inspection of reported issues on the display showed that they could be associated with impact on the top and bottom exposed areas of the hinge.
There was also an instance where substances found inside the device affected the display performance.
We will take measures to strengthen the display protection.
We will also enhance the guidance on care and use of the display including the protective layer so that our customers get the most out of their Galaxy Fold.
We value the trust our customers place in us and they are always our top priority.
Samsung is committed to working closely with customers and partners to move the industry forward.
We want to thank them for their patience and understanding.
Samsung also postponed a launch event for the Galaxy Fold in China.
It's not the first time the Disney heiress and philanthropist has criticized CEO pay.
In March, Disney stopped short of commenting on Iger's pay in an interview on CNBC's "Squawk Box," but said, "If your CEO salary is at the 700, 600, 500 times your median workers' pay, there is nobody on Earth, Jesus Christ himself isn't worth 500 times his median workers' pay."
In a series of tweets Saturday, Disney made clear she is a fan of Iger's although she disagrees with his pay level.
A spokesperson for The Walt Disney Company told CNBC, "Mr. Iger's compensation is 90% performance-based and he has delivered exceptional value for shareholders: Disney's market capitalization has grown exponentially over the last decade, rising $75 billion in the last month alone, and the stock price has increased to $132 a share from $24 a share when Mr. Iger became CEO in 2005all of which directly benefits literally thousands of employees who hold our stock."
The spokesperson added that the company has invested significantly into employee pay and mobility, including implementing a $15 starting hourly wage at Disneyland and committing $150 million toward a program designed to give hourly workers the opportunity at a college or vocational degree free of charge.
Abigail Disney has been outspoken about excessive executive spending and she's put her money where her mouth is, telling The Cut she has given away $70 million since she turned 21.
In the interview, she said if it were up to her, "I would pass a law against private jets, because they enable you to get around a certain reality."
Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.
Watch: The US must make structural changes by taxing the wealthy, says Disney Heiress
In a statement, a Facebook spokesperson said, "Our hearts go out to the victims, their families and the community affected by this horrendous act.
Teams from across Facebook have been working to support first responders and law enforcement as well as to identify and remove content which violates our standards.
We are aware of the government's statement regarding the temporary blocking of social media platforms.
People rely on our services to communicate with their loved ones and we are committed to maintaining our services and helping the community and the country during this tragic time."
Google, Snap, Viber and the Sri Lankan Embassy in the U.S. did not immediately respond to CNBC requests for comment.
Besides cutting off a key form of communication for Sri Lankans in a time of crisis, critics argue that a previous social media ban proved ineffective at quelling violence and misinformation.
In March 2018, the Sri Lankan government took a similar measure during a 10-day state of emergency following escalating violence between the country's Muslim and Buddhist communities.
An analysis of social media following the 2018 ban by Sri Lanka-based researcher Yudhanjaya Wijeratne found the ban only dropped activity on Facebook down about 50% compared to the three days before the outbreak of violence.
People quickly found ways around the ban as searches for "VPN," or virtual private networks, rose after it was announced, according to Wijeratne's analysis.
Other research signals that a ban could have even more damaging effects besides simply proving to be ineffective.
A 2016 study conducted by Jan Rydzak, associate director of Stanford's Global Digital Policy Incubator, found that following social media shutdowns in India, more violence took place.
"It actually generates more electricity, more energy overall, than it uses," Sullivan said.
"And it charges our electric car."
That's quite an accomplishment.
Saving energy isn't just good for the planet, it's good for your wallet, as well.
But energy guzzlers, such as the cooling and heating systems in your home, can cost hundreds to operate each month.
For Sullivan those savings have been achieved through the home's unique construction.
That includes 10-inch thick walls and a 16-inch thick insulated roof.
The home also faces south, which helps to provide solar heat.
In addition, the house has rooftop solar panels that generate more energy than the couple uses for 10 months out of the year.
As a result, Sullivan's energy bill is just $10 per month to cover the administrative fees the utility company charges.
The monthly water bill is also low, due to dual-flush toilets and low-flow shower heads.
Sullivan is counting on the continued savings to help his bottom line.
"Those are earnings that will come back to me over time, and it just gets better every year," Sullivan said.
For owners of existing homes, the good news is, it is possible to reach zero energy through improvements, according to Sullivan, who serves as the technical director at the Zero Energy Project, a nonprofit organization aimed at helping homeowners reduce their carbon emissions and energy bills.
Even smaller-scale tweaks such as installing insulation or new energy technologies can result in substantial savings, from hundreds to thousands of dollars per year.
There are several ways to go about this.
You can hire professionals, do it yourself or use new technology products on the market.
As Apple's top product, the iPhone, approaches market saturation, the company has begun pointing more to online services as a key contributor.
Recently, the company stopped disclosing unit sales for iPhones and other hardware products and started disclosing the profit margin for its services business, which includes the iOS App Store, AppleCare, Apple Pay and iCloud.
Apple also introduced new subscription services for video and magazines last month.
People use more than 1 billion Apple devices each month, and accordingly, Apple has considerable computing and storage requirements.
The company is investing heavily to build its own infrastructure: In January 2018, Apple announced plans to spend $10 billion on data centers in the U.S. within five years.
In December, Apple said it would spend $4.5 billion of that amount through 2019.
The company also depends on smaller third-party cloud providers.
But it also relies on the big cloud providers, including Amazon Web Services and Alphabet subsidiary Google.
Microsoft has also provided cloud tools to Apple in the past.
The company has said in the past that it uses AWS for iCloud storage but has not disclosed whether any other Apple services use AWS or other third-party clouds.
Samsung is postponing its China launch event for its foldable smartphone just days after incidents with defective screens on the nearly $2,000 device and has pushed back the release of the device globally.
The South Korean electronics giant had scheduled an event in Shanghai for April 24 to launch the Samsung Galaxy Fold.
A spokesperson confirmed that had been canceled but had no official statement to give.
It's unclear for when that event will be rescheduled or when the phone will be available in China.
Samsung's Galaxy Fold, unveiled in full in February, was slated to go on sale on April 26 in select markets including the United States, but a spokesperson told CNBC that this has also been delayed.
The screen on Samsung's device can fold in half and open up again to give users a large display.
However, journalists who reviewed the product over the past few weeks reported issues with the screen.
Some of the reviewers removed a protective film which covered the screen, which appeared to result in some problems with the display.
But CNBC did not remove that film during its review, and his screen ended up flickering and turning off and on at a rapid pace.
Samsung told said in a statement that the Galaxy Fold "needs further improvements" before it releases the phone to consumers.
In a statement following the reports of damaged screens, Samsung advised users not to remove the protective film and said it was looking into the issue.
"We have received a few reports regarding the main display on the samples provided.
We will thoroughly inspect these units in person to determine the cause of the matter," the company said.
- CNBC's Todd Haselton contributed to this report.
Huawei reported a 39 percent year-on-year increase in first-quarter revenue on Monday as it continues to see growth despite continued political pressure.
The Chinese networking equipment maker said revenue totaled 179.7 billion yuan ($26.8 billion) for the first three months of 2019.
The company said it shipped 59 million smartphones in the first quarter.
Huawei said in a press release that 2019 "will be a year of large-scale deployment of 5G around the world" and its carrier business "has unprecedented opportunities for growth."
By the end of March, Huawei had signed 40 commercial contracts for 5G with leading global carriers.
5G refers to the fifth generation of mobile networks that promises super-fast data speeds with the ability to support new technologies like driverless cars.
The United States and China are racing to build out high-speed 5G networks, and President Donald Trump doesn't want America to come in second place.
Last week, Trump introduced initiatives to speed up the rollout of new wireless networks across the U.S., saying "the race to 5G is a race America must win."
But experts say the U.S. still lacks a clear 5G strategy that goes beyond attacking Huawei, a Chinese tech giant and the world's biggest supplier of telecommunications equipment.
"I think they've been rather leaden-footed in the way they've responded," Nigel Inkster, a former British intelligence official and senior advisor at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, told CNBC's Beyond the Valley.
"Firstly by lacking an explicit, government-articulated strategy in relation to 5G which is only now starting to emerge, but also in arguing or shaping the challenge from China and from Huawei solely as an espionage issue."
Prior to 2018, start-ups could not compete against big tech companies' notoriously high salaries and other benefits designed to retain talent.
That has changed, according to conversations with half a dozen start-up execs in the health and education space.
"We're definitely getting more people in the pipeline from these big tech companies," said Ryan McQuaid, CEO of Plushcare, a health-tech company that recruits with the slogan "delivering health and happiness."
McQuaid's company aims to reduce the barriers for people to access the medications they need.
One of its focus areas is PrEP, which is designed for people who don't have HIV but are at a substantial risk of getting to it.
"In Silicon Valley, every company tries to position itself as doing amazing things for the world," said McQuaid.
"But employees are starting to realize that not all of them are actually doing that."
McQuaid's company can't compete on cash compensation, but they do pitch potential recruits on a large equity stake and an opportunity to work on challenging technical problems.
They also emphasize the company's social mission.
Color Genomics, a Silicon Valley-based health-tech company that specializes in helping people understand their medical risks, has also seen an uptick of interest from engineers, designers and product managers at the large tech companies.
Othman Laraki, the company's CEO, who previously worked at Twitter and Google, said that a few months ago he hosted an engineering recruiting event in Burlingame, Calif., a stone's throw from the big tech campuses.
More than 200 people showed up.
"It was on a Wednesday night, right when all those big storms in the Bay Area were happening, and yet we saw so much interest from engineers who wanted to tap into the opportunity to make an impact in a more direct way," he said.
Health insurance start-up Clover Health has found that there's a steady chunk of people who want to work at mission-driven start-ups.
"Clover tends to attract a specific type of person who wants to work for a company with a mission-driven culture and business model," said Bob Huynh, Clover's vice president of talent, adding that he hasn't seen a recent uptick in engineers from big tech companies interested in joining the team.
U.S. intelligence has accused Huawei Technologies of being funded by Chinese state security, The Times said on Saturday, adding to the list of allegations faced by the Chinese technology company in the West.
The CIA accused Huawei of receiving funding from China's National Security Commission, the People's Liberation Army and a third branch of the Chinese state intelligence network, the British newspaper reported, citing a source.
Earlier this year, U.S. intelligence shared its claims with other members of the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing group, which includes Britain, Australia, Canada and New Zealand, according to the report.
Huawei dismissed the allegations in a statement cited by the newspaper.
"Huawei does not comment on unsubstantiated allegations backed up by zero evidence from anonymous sources," a Huawei representative told The Times.
The company, the CIA and China's Foreign Ministry did not respond immediately to requests for comment.
The accusation comes at a time of trade tensions between Washington and Beijing and amid concerns in the United States that Huawei's equipment could be used for espionage.
The company has said the concerns are unfounded.
Authorities in the United States are probing Huawei for alleged sanctions violations.
Meng Wanzhou, Huawei's chief financial officer and daughter of its founder, Ren Zhengfei, was arrested in Canada in December at the request of the United States on charges of bank and wire fraud in violation of U.S. sanctions against Iran.
She denies wrongdoing and her father has previously said the arrest was "politically motivated".
Amid such charges, top educational institutions in the West have recently severed ties with Huawei to avoid losing federal funding.
Another Chinese technology company, ZTE Corp, has also been at the center of similar controversies in the United States.
U.S. sanctions forced ZTE to stop most business between April and July last year after Commerce Department officials said it broke a pact and was caught illegally shipping U.S.-origin goods to Iran and North Korea.
The sanctions were lifted after ZTE paid $1.4 billion in penalties.
Reuters reported earlier this week that the United States will push its allies at a meeting in Prague next month to adopt shared security and policy measures that will make it more difficult for Huawei to dominate 5G telecommunications networks.
The flood of young companies into the $400 billion space industry is sparking investor interest but there's a common issue: A lack of public U.S. companies that generate the majority of revenue from space business.
"The space industry is one that is still fairly new as far as corporations and the commercial viability of companies in space go," Andrew Chanin, co-founder and CEO of ProcureAM, an exchange-traded product issuer.
SpaceX, Blue Origin, Rocket Lab, Virgin Galactic and others are some of thetoo most talked about names among these space companies.
But those companies are not available to the majority of investors.
"Although there might be private companies that are working on new technologies, it's really difficult to get access unless you're an extremely affluent investor," Chanin said.
That's why Chanin partnered with Space Investment Services, run by former Space Foundation director of research Micah Walter-Range, to develop the Procure Space ETF, ticker UFO.
The exchange-traded fund of 30 companies gives everyday investors a way to own a stake in the growing space economy.
UFO also focuses as much as possible on "pure play" space companies, Chanin said, as roughly 80% derive the majority of revenue from space businesses.
"UFO provides, compared to other types of investment vehicles, a relatively low cost and diversified away to invest in this specific theme," Chanin said.
I was recently asked to visualize the size and shape of my laptop, which I've had for more than a year, while shopping for a replacement part.
As usual, my mind's eye was completely blank.
"I think it's purple, or maybe pink?"
I bumbled to the Apple Store clerk, who gazed back at me with a look of total confusion.
I've had this problem for as long as I can remember, where I can't conjure up images no matter how hard I try.
I've never been able to count sheep as I'm falling asleep, I struggle to remember faces, and I'm constantly lost because I can't visualize a map in my head.
It took me a long time to realize that other people did not have this experience of the world.
They could imagine a beach in detail or a loved one's face.
Some even had memories that played out like a movie reel, which I had once believed was a Hollywood conceit.
More recently I learned that I'm not alone.
My image blindness now has a name: "Aphantasia."
In 2015, the neurologist Adam Zeman coined the term to refer to the subset of people who cannot form mental images of objects that are not present.
In a research paper, Zeman documented the case of a patient who could not longer see images in his mind following a surgical procedure.
After conducting deeper research, Zeman now suspects that 1 in 50 people have aphantasia, either from birth or following a traumatic event, like a surgery or a stroke.
According to Zeman, the hallmarks appear to be faint or non-existent visual imagery, a struggle with autobiographical detail, and for some, a challenge recognizing faces.
After stumbling upon his research, I called Zeman, a professor at the University of Exeter's Medical School, to find definitive proof that I had aphantasia, and to figure out if there was anything I could do about it.
Zeman sent me a set of link to a survey that he created called the "VVIQ," which stands for the vividness of visual imagery questionnaire.
It began by asking me to imagine a loved one (errr....), and describe the contours of their face and body (nope), as well as the poses of their head and the way they walked (not happening).
My results came back immediately, and it put me firmly in the range of having aphantasia.
Take the aphantasia test here.
Advertisers haven't been afraid to pull money out of Facebook or YouTube campaigns, following the exposures of controversial content hosted on the platforms, but they always seem to come crawling back.
They're caught in a Catch-22.
Tech companies may get caught hosting content like terrorist videos or targeted comments from pedophiles, but their massive audiences make their platforms next to impossible for advertisers to quit in the end.
But at least one major advertising group, representing close to a trillion dollars worth of buying power a year, has started to formulate plans to get tech companies to clean up their mess.
The World Federation of Advertisers (WFA), whose members include PepsiCo, P&G and Diageo, called on its members to put pressure on platforms to do more to prevent their services and technology from being "hijacked by those with malicious intent" in brands' capacity as "the funders of the online advertising system."
Raja Rajamannar, Mastercard's CMO, took the role of president of the WFA in late March.
Since the internet companies receive so much revenue from advertising, "They cannot completely ignore the rightful preferences of the advertisers," he said in an interview with CNBC this week.
And he said it's about a broader issue than just providing a "safe" place for brands.
For something like the New Zealand shooting that was live-streamed on Facebook and passed around on YouTube and Twitter, "it is not a brand safety issue.
It's a societal safety issue, and as marketers we have a responsibility to society."
The WFA in late March urged its members to "think carefully about where they place advertising" and consider a moral responsibility bigger than the effectiveness than social media platforms for brands.
The call came after reports of comments from pedophile groups on YouTube videos, content regarding self-harm and suicide on Instagram and the live-streaming of a mosque shooting in New Zealand on Facebook.
But despite the problems, walking away isn't as obvious as it might seem to be, Rajamannar said.
"There are these big social media giants who have got a humongous reach, they've got a humongous ability to precisely target the right kind of an audience, which you cannot ignore," he said.
"You cannot walk away from that scale just like that."
The potential trade-offs to that scale have been more evident for marketers in recent months.
"Do you want live streaming of a shooting happening?
You definitely don't want that," he said.
"There is some tangible action that is happening.
Is it adequate?
No.
And should it be expedited?
Yes."
He said the request for platforms in the near-term is a clear plan.
"We are saying, 'Show us the game plan.'
We want to see the game plan clearly," he said.
Rajamannar said one common answer from platforms to how they're fixing content issues is that the companies are adding more people.
Facebook and YouTube have hired thousands of individuals in recent years to monitor content on their respective platforms.
"That's not exactly a plan.
So we are saying, is it a technology-based solution Is it people-based?
Is it a hybrid?
We are asking them to think through their strategy and come and share with us," he said.
Starting this summer, you'll be able to talk to a therapist through Amazon Alexa.
For the many people who struggle with anxiety and depression, it's a huge challenge to find an affordable therapist.
Now, a growing group of apps, including Talkspace and The Difference, are looking to solve the problem by using technology to improve access.
"Digital mental health" involves using smartphones, the web, and even Amazon Alexa for consults.
But some question whether the virtual approach is it right for every patient, particularly those with more serious mental health conditions.
Mental health professionals told CNBC that these apps are helpful for managing surface-level problems, but that the scientific research is inconclusive on whether they can replace in-person visits.
Pressure is mounting in Washington D.C. to take action against Facebook's chief executive Mark Zuckerberg for the company's handling of customer data.
Two Democratic senators voiced support for Zuckerberg to be held personally responsible for the company's privacy fumbles following a Washington Post report that claimed the Federal Trade Commission is considering how to hold him directly accountable.
"Facebook was put on notice about its practices long ago the FTC must now take aggressive enforcement action and name names," Connecticut Democratic Sen. Richard Blumenthal, a member of the judiciary committee, said in a statement.
"Holding Mark Zuckerberg and other top Facebook executives personally at fault and liable for further wrongdoing would send a powerful message to business leaders across the country: You will pay a hefty price for skirting the law and deceiving consumers."
Oregon Democratic Sen. Ron Wyden echoed Blumenthal's calls but said in a statement that the FTC doesn't currently have the ability to take appropriate action against Facebook, citing his push for stronger privacy legislation.
"The FTC should hold Mark Zuckerberg accountable by name in any consent order," Wyden said.
"However, right now I don't think FTC has the resources or authorities it needs to truly hold Facebook accountable."
The FTC's probe into Facebook centers around a 2011 settlement where Facebook agreed to receive explicit permission from users before sharing their personal data.
After the public learned that Facebook data had been used by political research firm Cambridge Analytica during the run-up to the 2016 presidential election, the FTC confirmed in March 2018 that it had opened an investigation into Facebook.
While the FTC declined to comment on the Post report and has previously declined to confirm the status of the investigation, recent reports revealed that Facebook was already facing the prospect of a steep penalty if found in violation of the agreement.
In February, The New York Times reported that Facebook was discussing a possible record-setting multibillion dollar settlement with the FTC.
But the Post report shows the FTC may be seeking to hold Zuckerberg more directly accountable for the company's actions as well.
In considering this action, the FTC joins regulators and lawmakers worldwide who have begun to take a firmer stance against executives whose companies are found guilty of wrongdoing.
Democratic presidential contender and Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren unveiled legislation earlier this month that would make it easier to jail executives for a firm's alleged abuses.
Australia passed legislation this month that gives the government the power to jail social media executives who fail to take down "abhorrent violent material" from the platforms in a timely manner.
The U.K. is considering similar regulations that would give the government power to hold executives personally liable for the spread of harmful content on their platforms, according to The Guardian.
Blumenthal said in the case of the FTC investigation, action must be taken against Zuckerberg because he and Facebook are closely intertwined.
"Zuckerberg and Facebook are one entity like two sides of the same coin," Blumenthal said in the statement.
"They are joined at the hip, head and heart.
He is the founder, CEO, controlling shareholder, and face of the company.
Thanks to recent reports, it's never been clearer: He wasn't just aware of Facebook's invasion of consumer privacy, he signed off on it and publicly downplayed legitimate concerns."
Asked about the Washington Post report on the FTC probe, a Facebook spokesperson told CNBC, "We hope to reach an appropriate and fair resolution."
Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.
Watch: Facebook says it inadvertently uploaded 1.5 million users' email contacts without permission
Sharper screens and better cameras have not been enough for people to upgrade their phones.
Consumers are holding on to phones longer than ever before up to 4 years according to a Bernstein report from February and smartphone shipments are down across the globe to levels not seen since 2014.
That means companies like Samsung and Apple are looking for new ways to attract phone buyers.
The Galaxy Fold is a $1,980 example of a new form factor that might get people to care about new phones again... eventually.
Samsung has a history of driving the smartphone market forward with new form factors.
People once gawked at the Galaxy Note for having a 5.3-inch screen, which seemed gigantic at the time.
But it ushered in a new era of large phones that have been adopted by every phone maker on the planet.
As a major supplier of screen technology, Samsung's foldable displays are likely to be used in millions of devices in the coming years.
And while I can't recommend it today, it could give you a taste of the future standard as prices drop.
Here's what I learned.
Not even Eric Yuan's closest friends, oldest advisers and earliest investors thought Zoom needed to exist.
It was 2011, and the market was littered with videoconferencing systems from Google, Skype, GoToMeeting and Cisco, where Yuan had been leading WebEx's engineering team.
"He came to a market that everybody said was done," said Dan Scheinman, Cisco's former head of corporate development who's now an angel investor and Zoom board member.
"He was competing with free and some pretty big incumbents."
Yuan, who emigrated from China to Silicon Valley in 1997 at age 27, says the problem with those products is that nobody enjoys using them, adding that the buggy code he wrote for WebEx two decades ago is still running today.
As a software engineer with multiple patents related to real-time collaboration, he also knew that our smartphones and tablets could do so much more with videoconferencing than what was available.
So Yuan ignored the skeptics and instead listened to users.
His wager is paying off.
Following Zoom's stock market debut on Thursday, the company is valued at $15.9 billion.
The stock climbed 72% in its first day of trading to $62, after the company raised $356.8 million in its IPO.
Zoom's rich valuation about 48 times sales is a reflection of 118% revenue growth in 2018 coupled with an unusual quality for an emerging software company: profit.
Thousands of businesses use Zoom's software, with many taking advantage of the free product alongside 344 companies that pay over $100,000 a year.
Yuan, who owns 20% of the shares, is tech's newest billionaire, with a stake worth about $2.9 billion.
Nintendo shares surged on Friday after Tencent won approval to start selling the Japanese gaming giant's Switch console in China.
At one point, shares were posting a gain of more than 16%, but they were trading at around 14% higher by the end of the day in Tokyo.
Regulators in the southern Chinese province of Guangdong approved the Nintendo Switch and the game "New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe" to be released in China.
Nintendo shares responded by hitting their highest level since an intra-day high on October 18, 2018.
Investors have been asking for a long time when Nintendo will enter the world's largest gaming market and the tie-up with Tencent will be a welcome step, according to Daniel Ahmad, an analyst at Niko Partners.
But, he warned, the market should not get too excited because Nintendo and Tencent will still need approval from more regulators in the country.
"This is still very early in the process.
Therefore, we expect there to be some time before the console releases in China," Ahmad said in a note on Thursday.
"Nintendo and Tencent will also need to submit each game for approval in China and ensure the games comply with content regulations.
This too is a lengthy process and means that it will take some time before Nintendo can build up a large library of official games in China," he added.
Genealogy company Ancestry has apologized for a commercial that depicted a Civil War slavery theme and said it is in the process of pulling the ad from television.
The spot, titled "Inseparable," depicted a white man urging a black women to "escape to the North across the border" to be together.
The ad then cut to black with the text, "Without you, the story stops here," with a voiceover reading "Uncover the lost chapters of your family history with Ancestry."
The ad from began rolling out in Canada earlier this month and was part of a campaign including two other spots.
A spokeswoman didn't immediately respond on whether the ad had only appeared in Canada or if it appeared in other markets.
The spot was widely criticized on Twitter, where one called it "abhorrent" and another said it creates an "irresponsible, ahistorical depiction of the relationship between white men & black women during the period of chattel slavery that completely disregards its power dynamics & the trauma of sexual exploitation."
Another said "We shouldn't whitewash history through media."
In an emailed statement to CNBC, a company spokeswoman said the company apologized for the spot.
"Ancestry is committed to telling important stories from history," the statement said.
"This ad was intended to represent one of those stories.
We very much appreciate the feedback we have received and apologize for any offense that the ad may have caused.
We are in the process of pulling the ad from television and have removed it from YouTube."
As of press time, the ad had been pulled from YouTube.
According to iSpot, the estimated media spend on the spot topped $250,000.
Ancestry Canada's ad agency Anomaly Toronto did not immediately respond to emailed requests for comment.
The controversy comes as Ancestry is preparing an initial public offering, Bloomberg reported Thursday.
Uber has announced a deal for a $1 billion investment in its self-driving vehicle unit, just weeks before its initial public offering.
Toyota and Japanese auto-parts supplier Denso will together invest $667 million, while Softbank's Vision Fund will invest $333 million.
SoftBank is already Uber's largest shareholder and Toyota invested $500 million last year.
The investment values the division, known as the Advanced Technologies Group (ATG), at $7.25 billion and creates a newly formed corporate entity with its own board.
Representatives from the investors attended the signing ceremony at Uber's San Francisco headquarters Thursday morning alongside Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi and ATG leader Eric Meyhofer Uber officially kicked off its IPO process last week with the public filing of its prospectus.
The next stage is a road show at the end of April, where Uber's executives and bankers will sell the ridesharing startup's story and business model to potential public market investors.
Smaller ridesharing rival Lyft went public at the end of March and has struggled in public markets as investors question its heavy losses and path to profitability.
Uber, while far more global and diversified than Lyft, burned through about twice the amount of cash last year.
It, like Lyft, is expected to price its IPO at a premium to its last private market valuation.
The new investment gives Uber fresh capital to develop technology for self-driving cars and trucks, that it will argue to investors is critical for its long term business model.
Toyota is also committing to contribute up to an additional $300 million over the next three years to help cover costs in the newly formed unit.
Correction: The deal was announced on Thursday, not closed.
WATCH: Uber's massive IPO filing, explained
The debuts of Pinterest and Zoom Video Communications on public markets also came with froth, which could lead to a market peak, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Thursday.
Froth is a trading environment that usually precedes a market bubble.
"The top of the market always comes when there is tremendous euphoria, and today we saw that euphoria in the two deals that went off hot," the "Mad Money" host said.
After a $19 IPO, Pinterest closed its first day of trading at $24.40 more than a 28% gain.
Zoom originally priced its shares at $36.
It settled at $62 at the end of the day a more than 72% run.
Pinterest is selling at 21-times 2018 sales, not earnings, on the New York Stock Exchange.
On the Nasdaq Composite, Zoom is trading even higher 46-times fiscal 2019 sales, not earnings, Cramer said.
The host said he likes the prospects that each of these companies have, but the stock prices could be running in worrisome territory.
"Now that investors or traders or flippers are beginning to pay outrageous multiples to sales, not earnings, but sales, beware," he said.
"That's a train that is headed to overvaluation hell and you will have to jump off it before it crashes."
Cramer rehashed his argument that an oversupply of high-priced stocks could put a dagger in the longest bull run in stock market history.
Lyft's IPO bust, he said, was powered in part by the shareholders that were allowed to sell the stock instead of adhering to a lock-up period that could have ranged from 90-180 days.
"The lack of an effective lock-up crushed buyers, and I had hoped would quell enthusiasm for further deals," Cramer said.
"That, however after today, is clearly not the case.
So we are going to bring a whole new class of unseasoned investor[s] into this market who are gaming the IPOs and that kind of investor usually arrives after the easy money is made."
Cramer also said he's concerned that there isn't enough money available in growth-focused mutual funds to buy into the IPOs that are in the pipeline.
The majority of new money being invested in the market has gone toward index funds, he pointed out.
"That means they can't be buyers as these new stocks of courses aren't in indices," he said.
"What will happen is growth funds will have to sell some of their holdings in order to buy these new holdings and, by the way, that happened all morning today."
Furthermore, there has been a limited amount of supply on Wall Street, which means "there isn't a lot of excess stock flying around," Cramer said.
Buyback programs have also shrank the volume of stocks available to trade, which could be counterproductive because stocks have rallied so much this year, he added.
That could create dangerous investing scenarios for the anticipated deals in Slack, Uber, and Palantir, he said.
"If you heard about the first-day gains in stocks like Pinterest and Zoom and you haven't been in the racket, you are going to go to the gaming tables and hope to get some stock on the next deals," Cramer said.
"I am talking about the worst kinds of holders.
Holders that are your enemy if you are in a stock that they dominate."
There's no need to panic yet Thursday was just day one, he said.
"As these deals flood the market though, you will see across the board pressure as existing stocks are liquidated to buy the new ones," Cramer said.
"Selling cheap to fund expensive, like Pinterest, like Zoom, is a loser's game, but may will end up playing it."
Tesla CEO Elon Musk and the Securities and Exchange Commission have asked for a one-week delay to resolve their contempt of court dispute, the parties announced Thursday in a joint submission to a federal judge.
"While we have not reached an agreement, counsel for the SEC, Mr. Musk, and counsel for Tesla met and conferred for over an hour by telephone earlier this week and are continuing to discuss potential resolution.
Because our discussions are ongoing, we respectfully request to provide the Court with another joint submission on or before April 25, 2019, indicating whether we have reached an agreement in principle," the submission says.
On April 4, a federal judge gave Musk and the SEC two weeks to work out their differences, punting a request from the agency to hold him in contempt of court for allegedly violating an October securities fraud settlement.
U.S. Judge Alison Nathan said she had "serious concerns that no matter what I decide here, this issue won't be resolved."
Nathan ordered both parties to "take a deep breath, put on your reasonableness pants" and work out a solution.
Now the parties are asking for one more week to figure it out.
The dispute stems from tweets Musk made in February that contained Tesla production forecasts.
At first, Musk wrote to his millions of Twitter followers that the electric vehicle-maker would build around 500,000 cars in 2019.
He followed up by tweeting that he meant to say that Tesla would reach a peak annualized production rate of 500,000, but still expected to make only about 400,000 cars this year.
The initial tweet was enough to convince the SEC to charge Musk with contempt for violating an October agreement.
That agreement came about as a result of Musk's tweet last year saying that he had "funding secured" to take Tesla private at $420 per share.
Musk and Tesla each paid $20 million fines as part of that settlement.
Former SEC prosecutor Elliot Lutzker told CNBC earlier this month that he does not expect the SEC to try and remove Musk from his CEO role, but believes the settlement will involve a fine larger than $20 million.
--CNBC's Ryan Ruggiero contributed to this story.
American Media said on Thursday it is selling its tabloid the National Enquirer to James Cohen, chief executive officer of Hudson Media.
The National Enquirer had admitted to paying hush money to help U.S. President Donald Trump get elected and been accused of attempting to blackmail Amazon founder Jeff Bezos.
The weekly tabloid, along with two of its sister publications, will be purchased by the head of Hudson Media, which is known for its airport newsstands.
This comes a week after AMI said it was looking at "strategic options" for the National Enquirer as well as for the Globe and the National Examiner brands.
The sale is expected to reduce AMI's debt to $355 million.
Earlier in the day, the Washington Post reported about the AMI's decision to sell its tabloid to the head of Hudson News for $100 million.
Last week, the New York Times reported that owners of the National Enquirer were in talks to sell the tabloid to the California-based billionaire Ronald Burkle.
Besides, Paul Pope, one of the heirs of the National Enquirer founder Generoso Pope Jr, had also been in the list of bidders, according to media reports.
On Tuesday, Pope dropped his bid to buy the supermarket tabloid from American Media, the New York Post report said.
Over its 92-year history, the National Enquirer has enticed readers in supermarket checkout lines with sensational headlines and photos about celebrities.
The tabloid's website claims it has a viewership of 5 million.
Facebook on Thursday said millions of Instagram user passwords were exposed to employees in a searchable format in an internal database.
The announcement came in an update to a blog post that was published last month after the company disclosed millions of Facebook user passwords were exposed to employees.
The blog post originally said thousands of Instagram passwords were exposed.
Cybersecurity journalist Brian Krebs reported in March that up to 600 million Facebook passwords were exposed.
Facebook said in the blog post it would be notifying the millions more Instagram users whose passwords were exposed.
The company also said its internal investigation determined that the passwords were not "abused or improperly accessed."
However, thousands of Facebook employees would have had access to the passwords, and Facebook hasn't provided an update to its investigation since it was originally reported in March.
Facebook's stock was down less than half a percent Thursday afternoon.
A few well-known stocks and some not quite so well known are just a few of the names analysts say have "upside" potential.
They see companies like Snap, Estee Lauder and Pinnacle West as just a few worth looking at as earnings season rolls on.
CNBC did a deep dive through company research to find analysts from different industries singling out stocks in their coverage universes.
Popular tech and social media platform Snap caught analyst's eyes this week.
"We remain convinced that the SNAP story is similar to TWTR in 2017 whereby the turnaround should materialize into meaningful market cap appreciation as investors see a path towards growing the user base and getting back to innovation following a rough 2018," Barclays analyst Ross Sandler said.
They liked how the stock price has moved up from $5 to $12, though the shares are down Friday over 3%.
"We still see upside from current levels," he said.
Makeup and skin-care giant Estee Lauder is one company analysts at Oppenheimer are staying bullish on.
"We continue to see an attractive top and bottom line algorithm that stands out in the consumer product goods space with street estimates leaving room for upside in our view," they said.
The stock is up 1.73% this week to $170.42.
Earlier this week Bank of America upgraded Pinnacle West to buy based on the company's, "upside potential."
Analysts noted that with regulatory concerns subsiding, the stock had an "attractive valuation."
The utility holding company also declared a dividend on Wednesday ahead of its upcoming quarterly results.
"We expect shares to outperform peers."
Pinnacle West is up almost 11% this year.
Here's what analysts are saying about stocks with upside:
Action cameras are unlike any other kind of camera.
They're designed to be attached to helmets, surfboards, cars and other objects, and they're small, tough and simple to operate, with a lens that captures the world in high-definition video and in a wide-angle fish-eye perspective.
Their small size and dramatic POV ('point of view') footage has made them popular with extreme sports participants, who capture their adventures by attaching cameras to themselves or their equipment.
They're also used by TV production companies where using a regular video camera would be impossible.
GoPro is the market leader with its iconic box-shaped Hero cameras, but action cams also come in a 'bullet' style, like the iON Air Pro.
There's lots of choice now, and you shouldn't just buy on brand think about what you want from an action camera and how you plan to use it.
If you're helmet-mounting, then a bullet cam will probably be the best choice.
For a chest mount a box design will be more stable.
And when it comes to features, do you really need Wi-Fi, 4K, GPS or even a screen?
These all bump up the price, and while they are invaluable in some situations, you can still get great footage without them.
1.
GoPro Hero6 Black The best in the business just gets better Weight: 118g | Waterproof: 10m | 4K video: Up to 60fps | 1080: up to 240fps | 720: up to 240fps | Stills resolution: 12MP | Battery life: 1-3hrs est Refined design Great image quality Touchscreen fiddly to use Expensive While it may appear to be a minor update from the Hero5 Black on the outside, a lot's changed on the inside.
The Hero6 Black gets a new GP1 processing engine, allowing you to record super high-quality 4K footage at 60fps.
Other highlights include an improved image stabilization system, while the Hero6 Black offers a wider dynamic range and better low-light performance than the Hero5 Black.
Waterproof down to 10m, the Hero6 Black has a useful 2-inch touchscreen, voice commands and an updated app with QuikStories that automatically transfers and edits your footage for you.
If you want the best action camera, this is it.
Read our in-depth GoPro Hero6 Black review 2.
GoPro Hero5 Black If you don't need the latest and greatest, this is still a good buy Weight: 118g | Waterproof: 10m | 4K video: up to 30fps | 1080: up to 120fps | 720: up to 240fps | Stills resolution: 12MP | Battery life: 1-3hrs est Voice activated controls Excellent 4K footage Touchscreen fiddly to use Few accessories included It may have been overshadowed by the new Hero6 Black, but the Hero5 Black still has a lot to offer.
Shooting 4K footage up to 30fps, video footage is incredibly smooth, while the ability to shoot stills in raw format brings even more flexibility.
Waterproof down to 10m without the need for a protective case, it's also simple to use, while the addition of a rear touchscreen, voice control and GPS make it one of the most feature-packed cams currently available.
Read our in-depth GoPro Hero5 Black review 3.
TomTom Bandit Shake-to-edit features could tempt users away from GoPro Weight: 190g | Waterproof: Splashproof, with lens swap | 4K video: 15fps | 1080: up to 60fps | 720: up to 120fps | Stills resolution: 16MP | Battery life: 3hrs Clever editing features Easy to mount and position Heavy compared with competitors Requires a lens swap to water proof Bullet shape cams might have fallen out of fashion recently thanks to GoPro and its box-shaped cameras, but the TomTom Bandit bucks the trend.
In fact, the Bandit packs features that other manufacturers will need to follow if they're to keep up with this newcomer.
Taking years of GPS experience, TomTom has built in a series of sensors that not only record location but speed and G-force too, so that when these sensors pick up that something exciting has happened they automatically tag the footage.
Back in the pub and with the app open and connected, a quick shake of your phone and the app will automatically edit your footage ready for upload.
It really couldn't be easier.
Read the full review: TomTom Bandit 4.
Olympus TG-Tracker The next generation of sensor enabled action cameras has arrived Weight: 180g | Waterproof: 30m | 4K video: 30fps | 1080: up to 60fps | 720: up to 240fps | Stills resolution: 7.2MP | Battery life: 3hrs Packed with Sensors Easy to use Heavy compared with competitors No in app auto editing The TG-Tracker's futuristic design is hard to miss with an ultra wide 204 degree lens fronting a 1/2.3-inch CMOS sensor.
Headline video resolutions include 4k at 30fps, 1080p at 60fps and an impressive 240fps at 720p for slow motion capture.
This is an action camera ready for anything and even features a small LED video light built in.
Sensors are the big news for the Tracker with GPS, compass, acceleration sensors plus a barometer and thermometer all capturing data from inside the compact case.
The intel from these can all be displayed when viewing back the footage or in the video edit so you can show just how extreme you are.
What's more, it's waterproof to 30m, features built in stabilization and can withstand temperatures down to -10C.
Read the full review: Olympus TG-Tracker 5.
YI 4K Action Camera A 4K action camera at a cheap price Weight: 94g | Waterproof: N/A (optional case available) | 4K video: 30fps | 1080: up to 120fps | 720: up to 240fps | Stills resolution: 12MP | Battery life: Up to 2hrs Today's best Yi 4K Action Camera deals $98.96 View at Amazon 867 Amazon customer reviews Detailed 4K footage Bigger touchscreen than a GoPro No voice activated controls Too easy to switch on and off How often do you take an action cam underwater?
Most people never will, so in some regard the YI 4K ActionCam is about cutting corners, but what it leaves out GPS, voice control, auto-upload, and raw shooting are hardly core features.
In fact, it gives as much as it takes, with a large and responsive touchscreen, a big battery and a fast file transfers.
It may lack a few niceties and we would include lens distortion correction and image stabilisation in that list but the YI 4K Action Cam remains a great value addition to any adventurer's kit bag.
Read the full review: YI 4K Action Camera 6.
Sony FDR-X3000R Action camera with a remote live view display Weight: 114g | Waterproof: 60m (case included) | 4K video: 30fps | 1080: up to 60fps | 720: up to 120fps | Stills resolution: 8.2MP | Battery life: 1-2hrs Image stabilization Remote monitoring Expensive Live View drop-outs All action cameras are now promising 4K at 30fps, but Sonys effort is about a lot more than just resolution and frame rate.
The diminutive FDR-X3000R's biggest claim is Balanced Optical SteadyShot (B.O.SS) image stabilization, which works across all resolutions and recording modes.
It also includes an underwater housing a rarity in the action camera market and comes with a wearable, mountable live view remote, a smartwatch-sized contraption that allows the FDR-X3000R to be operated from afar, and its images previewed in real time.
Read the full review: Sony FDR-X3000R 7.
Garmin Virb XE Capture your action, speed and location at the same time Weight: 152g | Waterproof: 50m | 4K video: No | 1080: up to 60fps | 720: up to 120fps | Stills resolution: 12Mp | Battery life: 2hrs GPS and other motion sensors Waterproof without additional case Bulky compared to competitors Less suitable for vehicle mounting The original Garmin Virb introduced motion sensors and GPS tracking to action cameras, adding an extra element to capturing the action, like the TomTom Bandit.
Building on the solid foundation of the original Virb, Garmin has revisited the design, losing the bullet shape and remodeling the camera around the popular 'box' style.
This new shape makes chest mounting far easier and, as with the original, the build quality is excellent.
The XE offers increased video quality, it's waterproof without an additional case, features Wi-Fi along with compatible app and software, this all makes the Virb XE one of the best action cameras at present.
Read the full review: Garmin Virb XE 8.
GoPro Hero5 Session Back-to-basics box-shape action camera Weight: 74g | Waterproof: 10m | 4K video: 30/25/24fps | 1080: up to 90fps | 720: up to 120fps | Stills resolution: 10MP | Battery life: 1.5-2hrs est Compact design Simple one button control App required to adjust settings No screen The Hero5 Session follows on from the Hero4 Session, stripping back the action camera concept to its basics, but sharing many of the same specs as the Hero5 Black.
That includes 4K video capture up to 30fps, image stabilisation, voice control and is waterproof down to 10m.
The large Record button on the top starts and stops recording so there's no worrying about different modes and options that's all handled by the app (though it does have a simple menu system if you wish).
Back to basics, but still captures the quality of video that you'd expect from GoPro.
Read the full review: GoPro Hero5 Session 9.
SJCAM SJ7 Star Yet another 4K action camera to rattle GoPro Weight: 58g | Waterproof: 30m (case included) | 4K video: 30fps | 1080: up to 120fps | 720: up to 120fps | Stills resolution: 12MP | Battery life: 1-2hrs Today's best SJCAM SJ7 Star deals $145.82 View at Amazon Slick 4K footage at 30fps Rear touchscreen No image stabilization at 4K Barrel distortion blights stills The SJCAM SJ7 delivers some good-looking footage, especially when shooting in 4K.
However, this budget GoPro Hero5 rival doesn't boast the sort of professional features offered by the biggest name in the action camera game, such as voice activation, GPS and the ability to make quick and easy video clips via a smartphone app.
If you want a action camera that delivers strong footage at a fraction of the price though, then the SJCAM SJ7 Star is worth a look.
Read our in-depth SJCAM SJ7 Star review
The encrypted version of Google's Chrome browser has raised concerns among a number of internet safety watchdogs and intelligence agencies who fear the move could endanger the safety of children online.
Critics of the encrypted version of the browser, which is currently available for download but not the default version, argue that it could make it more difficult for companies to block harmful material online as it will bypass most parental control systems.
As it stands now, harmful materials like terrorist propaganda and child-abuse images are blocked by internet companies through filters that scan the web's domain name servers.
However, with the encrypted version of Chrome, users are able to bypass these filters and connect to its server instead.
Encrypted Chrome According to The Sunday Times, talks will be held in May where broadband providers including BT, Virgin, Sky and TalkTalk will come together with the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) to discuss the risks posed by the encrypted version of Chrome.
Intelligence and law enforcement officials also fear that the new Chrome will allow Google to collect even more details on users' browsing habits.
A government official voiced their concerns to The Sunday Times, saying: Google will have a lot more than their searches it will have their entire browser history.
Thats an incredible amount of data, he said.
It will also be able to track devices rather than just household accounts."
Google responded to the Times' argument against it by saying that it has not made any changes to the default behavior of Chrome.
Via The Drum
While the global server market is predicted to continue growing in 2019, new research from DRAMeXchange has revealed that this year's server shipment growth has shrunk by 3.9 percent compared to last year under the pressures of business cycles and worldwide uncertainty.
The company's senior analyst Mark Liu pointed out the worldwide server growth momentum in 2018 derived mainly from North American brands which comprised over 30 percent of total shipments.
Enterprise servers still form the largest shipment group though shipments to data centers are growing year by year up from 35 percent in 2018 to 40 percent this year.
As 5G begins to transform businesses with its global rollout this year, telecommunications companies and internet providers will increase in their demand for servers and current predictions highlight the fact that server shipments are expected to peak in 2020.
Server shipments Looking back at the first season of this year, data center demand was relatively unaffected by the traditional offseason as total shipments continued to experience stable growth.
ODM direct business shipments grew by 1.3 percent compared to the previous season and as orders continue to arrive in the second season, we may still see seasonal growth of around 1 to 3 percent bringing market shares up to to 26.6 percent.
Some brands were hit by the offseason in the first quarter with the their shipments falling by over 20 percent compared to last quarter but the market made a notable recovery during the second.
In terms of global market share rankings of server brand manufacturers in 2H 2019, Dell EMC, HPE and Inspur took the top three spots with market shares of 15.8 percent, 13.7 percent and 7.5 percent respectively.
According to DRAMeXchange, China's top cloud service providers will drop by about 15 percent year over year in server purchases this year, while North American companies will be less affected with their purchases projected to keep growing by 5 to 10 percent.
Eager to take on Apple's MacBook Air in the ultra-portable space, Huawei is finally bringing its new MateBook 13 laptop Down Under, announcing that it's available to buy in Australia from today (April 23) in Mystic Silver and Space Grey colour options.
Huawei's 13-inch MateBook offers some pretty impressive specs within its slimline 14.9mm frame, boasting either an 8th Generation Intel Core i5-8265U (256GB SSD model) or i7 8565U (512GB SSD model) Whisky Lake processor, a GeForce MX 150 Discrete GPU, a 2K resolution sRGB display (3:2 aspect ratio) and a 10-hour battery life.
According to Huawei, the MateBook 13 offers "new ways for users to connect their notebook with smartphones, blurring the lines between mobile devices and personal computers".
Very nice, how much?
Priced at $1,799 for the 256GB model and $2,199 for the 512GB version, the Huawei MateBook 13 can be purchased in-store from Sydney's Microsoft Store on George Street, or from Microsoft's online store.
As an added bonus, the Microsoft store is currently offering a $119.95 discount on both MateBook 13 models, bringing their prices down to $1,679.05 and $2,079.05 respectively.
In our five-star review, we named the Huawei MateBook 13 our "Best in Class laptop in 2019," also describing it as "the most value-packed flagship laptop to date".
Historically, Apple has used its annual WWDC event to debut new details and features of its upcoming version of the iOS mobile operating system, with the new OS then releasing a few months later with the arrival of that year's new iPhones.
This year, WWDC is scheduled for June 3 and we fully expect iOS 13 to take center stage meaning we dont have too long to wait before we find out exactly what iOS 13 will bring later this year.
Rumors have already hinted at what could be part of iOS 13s feature set according to one report, we could see a system-wide dark mode, app tabs and a new undo gesture, alongside a major overhaul of the interface for iPads.
Then theres the slew of Animoji sprites were expecting to see in iOS 13.
Apple already gave us a preview of 230 new characters being added to the library, but a new leak suggests four more could be incoming.
Facing iPhone issues?
Solve them with our iOS 12 guide We reviewed Apples cheap iPhone XR What were expecting to see in the iPhone 11 According to developer Steven Troughton-Smith, users of the latest iPhones will soon be able to get into the head of a cow, octopus, mouse and wait for it an emoji face.
It looks like iOS 13 might get some new Animoji: a cow, octopus, mouse, and an emoji face.
That last one sounds like it has potential for shenanigans /cc @_insideApril 22, 2019 While that last one seems like it would be a heck of a lot of fun, its the mouse Animoji were rather keen on.
Apple has partnered with Disney in the past to bring us branded content we already have Mickey Mouse and Minnie Mouse Apple Watch faces after all.
So it would be interesting to see if that mouse Animoji will be just a, well, mouse or if it would be one of Disneys much-loved characters.
The Animoji feature is available on the iPhone X, the latest iPhone XS, XS Max and iPhone XR, along with the latest iPad Pro.
Looking for the best shows on Amazon Prime?
You've come to the right place!
Each week Amazon Prime Video adds exclusive TV shows and fresh new episodes to its library - which is great - but it can be difficult to choose just one to binge on next.
Thats why we're here to help you make that all important decision about which TV series you should binge watch this weekend and what we recommend you should skip.
We've collected together a big selection of TV shows for you to choose from, including shiny new series through to Amazon's own original shows.
April Update: April is a surprisingly good month for movies on Amazon Prime Video between A Quiet Place (arrives April 2) and The Shawshank Redemption (April 1).
While things are a bit more sedated on the series side, we will get the fifth season of Bosch on April 19 and the third season of Humans on April 27.
In our guide you'll discover our pick of the best Amazon Prime TV shows that are currently on offer.
We have options for fans of thrillers, comedy lovers and those who enjoy nothing more than a fantasy police drama.
So, what's the best Amazon TV show to get sucked into without regretting it by the end of season 2?
Read our Prime Video recommendations to find out.
You'll need a Prime subscription to watch Amazon Prime Instant Video for free, and best of all, you can get a free 7-day trial of Amazon Prime Video Not sure if Amazon is the streaming service for you?
Compare the best cord-cutting options.
If you can only watch one...
The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel (Season 2) Winner of a Golden Globe for Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series, The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel tracks Midge on her rise to the top of the comedy scene in the 1950s.
The basic premise of the show is that Midge, a perfect stay-at-home wife, never quite gets the recognition she deserves from her drunk, deadbeat comedian husband.
She picks up the mic herself and, as it turns out, is actually funnier than her lesser half.
The monologues Midge delivers feel as appropriate for today's audiences as they were for the fictional crowd in the '50s, if not moreso.
The result is genuinely funny, inspirational and, above all, human.
The first season aired last year and now Midge is back and better than ever in season two.
Amazon Prime or Netflix?
Check out our comparison video below!
Best Netflix Shows: Welcome to TechRadar's guide to the best shows and TV series you can stream on Netflix in the United States.
These days Netflix plays host to some of the best TV shows on the planet, bar none.
From originals like Stranger Things and Orange is the New Black, to syndicated content like Archer, Black Mirror and Breaking Bad, if you need to unwind with a great TV show, there's only one place to go.
That means, if you're anything like us, you spend a lot of time in front of the Netflix screen.
That also means you run out of shows to watch.
To help you keep that IV bag of great TV content dripping, we've scoured the video streaming service to create a guide to the best Netflix shows in the US right now.
We keep this list constantly updated with the latest television shows that you should be watching, so check back soon for more highlights.
April update: While they'll still be available to stream on the service for awhile longer, Marvel and Netflix have announced that all projects - including Daredevil, Luke Cage, Jessica Jones, Iron Fist and The Punisher - have been cancelled.
There's a chance these shows will reappear on Disney+ later this year, but for now, consider them MIA.
The good news is that Netflix has a bunch of new shows coming down the pipeline, like the second season of The Chilling Adventures of Sabrina (available now) and third season of Stranger Things that's due out later this year.
So where should you start?
Our list starts with the most recent releases - so start at the beginning with the latest options or dive straight in to the best of the best, the choice is yours.
Why focus on Netflix?
Why not hit up Hulu or tackle Vudu, Crackle or Vimeo?
Well, those services are great but, in our opinion, Netflix has the most variety and probably the best shows of any of the other services.
That being said, theres never been a better time to binge watch, so get stuck into our gallery and let us know if your favorite show isn't on the list.
Live in the UK, the UAE or Australia?
We have guides for those, too!
Check out our Amazon Prime vs Netflix video below:
In case you needed another reason to get excited about Avengers: End Games rapidly-approaching release date on April 25, you can now add a Fortnite crossover event to that list.
Today on Twitter, Fortnite teased a second crossover event with Marvel for Avengers: End Game that will start one day before the film hits theaters.
While the tweet doesnt give us much to go off of other than the date, its fair to expect either new character skins or another appearance of Thanos in-game.
(If you weren't around for it last year, Fortnite ran a crossover event for Avengers: Infinity War that put Thanos in the game for a few weeks.)
The silver lining here is that we don't have long to wait to find out what the cryptic clue means, as the update lands on Thursday.
That's good for the True Believers out there... and maybe not so good for folks who don't like being inundated with advertising.
Samsung has officially delayed launching the Samsung Galaxy Fold to address malfunctions reported by early reviewers in the devices folding screen.
And yet, a leak has emerged claiming the company is working on two different designs for dual-hinged foldable displays, according to Korean site The Bell .
The display concepts are referred to by letters, which describe their form: the G-type has two outer secondary screens folding inward toward each other (much like Xiaomis foldable phone design ).
This resembles the patent found in March, which LetsGoDigital visualized with a rendering (above).
The other concept the S-type folds in thirds like youd expect (one resting over the center screen, one under, like a snake).
This looks much like the Samsung patent discovered back in November, as visualized by Mobielkopen.
(Image: Mobielkopen) Both the designs described by The Bell are larger than the 7.3-inch Galaxy Folds fully-unfolded screen.
Per The Bell, it seems like the G-type will have an 8-inch screen, while the S-type will reach 13 inches; they are allegedly intended to compete with Apples 7.9-inch iPad Mini and the largest 12.9-inch iPad, respectively.
How likely are these designs to see the light of day?
Its impossible to tell how far Samsung has developed these designs, but we can look to past patent and concept leaks to see how much those resembled the final product.
For example, this leak from mid-2016 shows a clamshell layout that bears a striking resemblance to the eventual Samsung Galaxy Fold.
While the final design ended up being far taller/narrower than these wide halves (and doesnt have the mid-hinge charging port), the exposed hinge is very similar to the Folds eventual look.
Theres other evidence that Samsung isnt abandoning a center-fold layout.
Back in March, a report noted the company had two potential foldable phones in the works one with a horizontal (and thus, wide rather than tall) clamshell design while the other folds vertically.
Both, however, seem to have the screen on the outside, much like the Huawei Mate X .
All the optimism might be stymied by the Galaxy Fold launch delay, though, as Samsung rushes to fix issues with its much-ballyhooed first-to-market flagship foldable.
Who knows how these struggles will impact Samsungs folding designs going forward.
Via GSMArena
We've gone through top retailers such as Amazon and Walmart to find the best cheap TV sales and deals that are currently going on (we've also got a roundup of UK retailers).
You can find Black Friday like prices on a variety of best-selling 4K TVs from brands such as Samsung, Sony, LG and more.
You'll find discounts on 4K TVs, smart TVs, different model sizes, and a variety of prices that will fit any all TV viewing needs.
You will find all of our curated deals below.
We've divided them into three different size categories as well as our pick for the best cheap TV deal of the week.
These days you really don't have to pay much more to get a Ultra HD 4K set instead of an older-style HD one.
If you're after the hottest tech in TV though, you may want to take a look at the cheapest OLED TV prices.
Whether you want a small TV with a price tag to match or something to show all the colors of the rainbow (and a few million more) with HDR, we've found plenty of options.
Read on to find the TV you want at a great price!
TechRadar's cheap TV deal of the week Samsung UN50NU7200 50-inch 4K Smart TV $548 $349 at Walmart Looking for a versatile name brand TV?
This 50-inch Samsung has everything you need: Smart TV capabilities, HDR, game mode, and plenty of inputs.
Plus, it comes with a $20 credit towards Walmart's VUDU streaming service and is $200 off the list price.
View Deal 40-49 inch Cheap TV deals (40-49 inch) JVC LT-49MA875 49-inch 4K Smart TV $499.99 $269.99 at Walmart Combining Smart TV capabilities with an HDR-equipped display, this midsize JVC TV will let you stream all your favorite content and look good doing it.
Walmart's price has dropped even lower this week, and it's selling it for nearly half of what other stores charge.View Deal LG 49SK8000PUA 49-inch 4K HDR Smart UHD TV $896.99 $459 at Walmart The LG Super UHD TV features a Nano Cell Display which claims to reveal more than a billion colors.
The smart TV also features AI ThinQ technology and is currently $450 off the list price.View Deal Samsung QN49Q6F 49-inch QLED 4K Smart TV $1,099.99 $599 at Amazon Get the Samsung 49-inch UHD TV on sale at Amazon for $599.
That's over a $500 discount for this flat 49-inch TV that features a 360 design and offers Ambient mode so your TV will blend into your home decor.View Deal 50-59 inch Cheap TV deals (50-59 inch): Sceptre X505BV-FSR 50-inch FHD LED TV $349.99 $199.99 at Walmart If you're looking for a budget TV with basic features, then the Sceptre X505BV from Walmart is a great option.
On sale for only $199.99, the FHD TV features 3 HDMI ports to allow streaming from other devices.View Deal RCA 50-inch 4K Ultra HD TV $379.99 $209.99 at Walmart The top-rated RCA 50-inch TV is on sale at Walmart for $209.99.
That's a $170 discount for the 4K UHD TV that features four HDMI inputs so you can stream your favorite multimedia.View Deal Sceptre U550CV-U 55-inch 4K TV $399.99 $259.99 at Walmart Not that long ago, we would never expect to see a 55-inch 4K TV for under $260 outside of a Black Friday doorbuster, yet here it is.
You're not getting Smart features or HDR, but if you're looking for a basic midsize TV as your entryway into 4K, this is an inexpensive option.View Deal Vizio D55x-G1 55-inch 4K Ultra HD Smart TV $478 $349.99 at Walmart Save over $100 on the Vizio 55-inch 4K TV at Walmart.
An excellent price for a 55-inch 4K TV with smart capabilities, the D-Series UHD TV allows you to stream your favorite shows from apps directly on the TV.View Deal Samsung UN50NU7200 50-inch 4K Smart TV $548 $349 at Walmart Looking for a versatile name brand TV?
This 50-inch Samsung has everything you need: Smart TV capabilities, HDR, game mode, and plenty of inputs.
Plus, it comes with a $20 credit towards Walmart's VUDU streaming service and is $200 off the list price.
View Deal Samsung UN55NU7100 55-inch Smart TV $899.99 $494.99 at Walmart A midsize Smart TV option, this 55-inch set is also a good gaming TV, as it features a mode designed precisely for that.
Plus, it comes with HDR for a great picture.
Best of all, it's more than $400 off the regular price.
View Deal TCL 55R617 55-Inch 4K Ultra HD Roku Smart TV $799.99 $534.99 at Amazon Get the TLC 55-inch 4K TV on sale at Amazon for $534.99.
The TCL 55R617 features Dolby Vision HDR, voice remote and a built-in Roku so you can stream thousands of movies and TV shows directly from your TV.View Deal Samsung UN55NU8000FXZA Flat 55-inch 4K UHD Smart LED TV $1,199.99 $733.97 at Amazon Save over $300 on the Samsung 55-inch 4K TV at Amazon.
This ultra-slim UHD offers smart capabilities and features Bixby Voice which allows you to stream and watch live TV shows with one universal remote and with voice assistance.View Deal Sony 55-inch 4K Ultra HD HDR Android TV $1,098 $798 at Walmart Save $300 on the Sony 55-inch 4K TV at Walmart.
The UHD smart TV has the Google Assistant built-in so you can use your voice to control you TV and other smart home devices.View Deal 60-85 inch Cheap TV deals (60-85 inch): Vizio D60-F3 60-inch 4K Smart TV $698 $449 at Walmart Like most Vizio televisions, this one gives you a lot of bang for your buck.
It comes with Chromecast built-in for Smart TV capabilities and is compatible with Amazon Echo and Google Assistant.
Even better, it's over $200 off the list price.View Deal RCA RTU6549 65-inch Class 4K Ultra HD LED TV $899.99 $459.99 at Walmart An excellent price for a 65-inch TV, you can get the RCA 4K TV on sale for $459.99 at Walmart.
The UHD TV features three HDMI ports which allow you to stream all your favorite multimedia.
View Deal Hisense 65R6E 65-inch 4K Ultra HD Roku Smart TV $648 $498 at Walmart A fantastic price for a 65-inch 4K smart TV, the Hisense 65R6E is on sale at Walmart for $498.
The UHD TV has the Roku experience built-in so you can stream your favorite multimedia on the home screen of your TV.
View Deal Vizio 65-inch Class 4K Ultra HD Smart TV $698 $549.99 at Walmart Get the Vizio 65-inch 4K TV on sale at Walmart for $549.99.
That's the best price we've seen for the UHD TV that features smart capabilities and works with Amazon Alexa and the Google assistant.
View Deal TCL 65S517 65-inch 4K Ultra HD Roku Smart LED TV $1,099.99 $599.99 at Amazon Get the TLC 65-inch 4K TV on sale at Amazon for $599.99.
That's the best price we've seen for this 4K UHD TV that offers built-in Roku TV which allows you to stream thousands of movies and TV shows from the home screen of your TV.View Deal Samsung UN65NU6900 65-inch 4K Ultra HD Smart TV $1,099.99 $597.99 at Walmart An excellent price for a 65-inch 4K Smart TV, the Samsung UN65NU6900 is on sale for $597.99 at Walmart.
The UHD TV offers four times the resolution of Full HD and features smart capabilities.View Deal TCL 65S405 65-inch 4K Ultra HD Roku Smart TV $999.99 $647.99 at Walmart A fantastic price for a 65-inch 4K smart TV, you can save over $300 on the 4-series TCL TV at Walmart.
The UHD has the Roku experience built-in so you can stream all you favorite content from the home screen of your TV.
View Deal Sceptre U750CV-U 75-inch 4K TV $1,799.99 $899.99 at Walmart If size is of the utmost importance, here's an affordable 75-inch option.
At this price, you won't get a lot of features, but you will get a lot of square-inches.
Walmart is selling it for nearly half of its list price.
The lack of a smart app for streaming hurts a little, but you could always pick up a cheap Fire TV Stick to go with it.
View Deal LG 70UK6570PUB 70-inch 4K HDR Smart UHD TV $1,596.99 $1,049.99 at Walmart Get the LG 70-inch 4K Smart TV on sale at Walmart for $1,049.99.
That's a whopping $500+ discount for the UHD TV that features AI ThinQ technology which allows your TV to become a hub for all your smart home devices.View Deal LG OLED65C8PUA 65-inch OLED 4K HDR Smart TV $3,999.99 $2,796.99 at Walmart Save over $1,000 on the LG 65-inch OLED TV that offers smart capabilities and AI ThinQ technology.
The smart TV features Dolby Vision HDR and Dolby Atmos for a superior picture and sound experience.View Deal Sony XBR65A8F 65-inch 4K Smart Bravia OLED TV $3,798 $2,998 at Walmart The Sony XBR65A8F is a 65-inch OLED 4K TV that features 8-million self-illuminated pixels for crisp contrast and nearly perfect colors.
Now's the ideal time to get this 4K TV after a massive $1000+ discount.View Deal LG OLED65E8PUA 65-inch 4K Smart OLED TV $3,999.99 $3,296.99 at Walmart The LG OLED65E8PUA features one of the thinnest 4K panels on the market.
On top of this, the 65-inch TV is equipped with an a9 Intelligent Processor that's designed to process and render rich colors, sharpness, and depth to deliver ultimate picture quality.
View Deal More cheap TV sales: Not found the right cheap TV for you today?
Or maybe you'd prefer to directly browse the TVs at your favourite retailers instead of our highlights of the best cheap TV deals?
We're updating this page on a regular basis, so you may have better look another day.
If you want to take a look for yourself now though, here are the direct links to a the full collection of TV deals at multiple stores.
Samsung Galaxy Tab S5 leaks and rumors are already starting to circulate, and we may be several months away from the announcement of the new tablet.
Before that day comes, we want to keep track of all the bits of information we've heard and all of the hopes and expectations we have for the future Galaxy Tab S5.
It's been less than a year since Samsung launched the Galaxy Tab S4, so it may still be early to start wishing for a Galaxy Tab S5.
To hold us over, Samsung did launch a more budget-focused Galaxy Tab S5e back in February, though the new tablet has taken more than two months to actually release in stores.
It's also worth noting that the Galaxy Tab S5e isn't the full Galaxy Tab S5we're expecting.
It offers a slimmer, lighter design and can come configured with up to 6GB of RAM, but it has no S Pen and uses a mid-tier chipset.
That may be why the Galaxy Tab S4 still costs over 50% more than the Galaxy Tab S5e.
So, with the Galaxy Tab S5e not serving as a true successor to the Tab S4, here's what we want to see from the real heir to the Tab S family throne.
Cut to the chase What is it?
Samsung's next premium Android tablet Samsung's next premium Android tablet When is it out?
Likely in August 2019 Likely in August 2019 What will it cost?
Likely more than the $650 (599) launch price of the Tab S4 We've only got a little to go on in this department, but history can be a decent indicator.
The Galaxy Tab S4 launched alongside the Galaxy Note 9 in August 2018.
So, the new tablet will presumably launch alongside a new phone once again.
We anticipate an August launch for the Galaxy Note 10, and therefore expect the Galaxy Tab S5 in August as well.
In terms of price, the Tab S5 will likely launch in the ballpark of $650 (599) at a minimum.
This was the launch price of the Galaxy Tab S4.
But, if Samsung includes some of the upgrades we hope to see in the Galaxy Tab S5, the price could go up a considerable amount.
Image Credit: TechRadar Some screen upgrades Samsung's Galaxy Tab S4 did upgrade the display from the Tab S3, but the Tab S5 could stand to go even further.
The Tab S4 has a 10.5-inch Super AMOLED displays with 2560x1600 resolutions.For the front of the Galaxy Tab S5e, Samsung managed to stuff that same 10.5-inch display from the Galaxy Tab S4 into a frame that it smaller in every dimension.
That makes them plenty sharp, and in that regard, the Galaxy Tab S5 doesn't really need to make any improvements to still offer excellent visual clarity.
But, even with the newly reduced bezels on the Galaxy Tab S5e, there's still a considerable amount more needless black border on the 2018 tablet than on Samsung's new, premium smartphones.
With the Galaxy Tab S5, it would be exciting to see a bit more screen filling the space.
Samsung could theoretically fit an 11.5-inch display in the same form factor as the Galaxy Tab S5e, and that would leave almost no bezel.
A bezel-free Galaxy Tab S5 would also help resolve one of our main complaints with the Tab S5e, its bland design.
And, while Samsung's at it, the in-screen fingerprint scanner from the Galaxy S10 and S10 Plus would be nice to see.
Support for new HDR standards, please While this is technically still a matter of the screen (to a degree), we feel the high dynamic range on the Galaxy Tab series should be explained more clearly.
Samsung doesn't provide many details when it comes to HDR on its tablets.
Sure, they get sharp, Super AMOLED displays that can display great visuals, but as more and more content is getting the HDR treatment, it would be good to see a full commitment to new HDR standards from Samsung on some of its biggest OLED displays.
That Galaxy Tab S4 has a screen that Samsung lists as "HDR-ready," and the Tab S3 product page listed HDR support but only for video on the Amazon app.
The Galaxy Tab S5e having what appears to be the same display as the S4 is presumably also HDR-ready, but what this means for users is unclear.
If you go to the main product pages for the Tab S5e, you won't find any mention of HDR for the display, and the Tab S4 doesn't say anything more than HDR-ready.
Meanwhile, if you check Samsung's latest phones' product page, you'll see clear certification for HDR10+ on all four models.
The large tablet display of the Galaxy Tab S5 would make it an ideal platform for content consumption, and official support for the new standards in HDR like HDR10+ or even Dolby Vision would be an excellent improvement.
Better still if that support isn't limited to just a few apps.
Image Credit: TechRadar The latest Qualcomm chipset We've already seen a leak suggesting that the Galaxy Tab S5 will get the Snapdragon 855 chipset that powers the new Galaxy S10 phones and Galaxy Fold.
Here's to hoping that rumor is true.
When the Galaxy Tab S4 launched, it didn't get the latest chipset at the time, opting instead for the Snapdragon 835 over the the Snapdragon 845.
For a tablet that could be used for productivity, seeing an outdated chipset is not exciting, as it just means everything will be that little bit slower.
And, the Galaxy Tab S5e didn't even get a high-end chipset, with Samsung going for the mid-tier Snapdragon 670 instead.
So, for the Galaxy Tab S5, we hope the Snapdragon 855 will be powering everything.
And, in the tablet form factor, maybe an advanced cooling solution can be applied to help the CPU run even faster than it does in phones, perhaps by means of overclock as the Asus ROG Phone does.
Topping it off with 8GB of RAM would also be helpful for multitasking.
The Snapdragon 855 chipset would also open up the door for a number of other features, like an in-screen fingerprint scanner, HDR10 video capture, HDR10+ video playback, 10-bit color, and support for dual-4K external displays.
The return of S Pen and Dex There are two features we fully expect to see come back with the Galaxy Tab S5.
Samsung's S Pen is a staple of the tablet family, yet it was excluded from the Galaxy Tab S5e.
Not only was it not included with purchases of that tablet, but it isn't supported for users who buy it separately.
For the Galaxy Tab S5, we believe the S Pen will be back with some new flourish.
The Galaxy Tab S4 launched alongside the Galaxy Note 9 with upgrades to the S Pen, if the Galaxy Tab S5 indeed launches alongside the Galaxy Note 10, the pair may tout even more S Pen upgrades, like a built-in camera.
We also expect Samsung's Dex feature to come back with the Tab S5.
It was also excluded from the Tab S5e, but for a more premium device like the Galaxy Tab S5, Samsung should include its desktop-like Dex experience for users that want to be productive on their tablet.
Wireless PowerShare The Galaxy S10 and S10 Plus have considerably large batteries for smartphones, so Samsung included a nifty feature first introduced by Huawei: the ability to wirelessly share your phone's battery.
Samsung calls it Wireless PowerShare.
Given that the Galaxy Tab S5 will have a substantially larger battery than Samsung's phones, it could make sense to offer that same feature here.
This would let the the Tab S5 serve as a tablet and on-the-go wireless battery bank.
Image Credit: TechRadar 5G and Wi-Fi 6 Connectivity is seeing some big shifts right now, and it would benefit customers to get a little future-proofing from their premium tablet in that regard.
Wi-Fi 6 is a new standard for connectivity that supports higher performance, faster speeds, and more connected devices.
With networks are becoming more congested, it only makes sense for the Tab S5 to be prepared for the latest network standard.
On that note, 5G may also be a smart optional feature, even if it's only for Samsung to get 'first 5G tablet' bragging rights.
Not everyone is going to need 5G in 2019 or even 2020, but as mobile carrier's roll-out of the new technology you may benefit from the extra bandwidth eventually.
If Samsung includes the Snapdragon 855 chipset, it could also include a 5G modem.
As with most other tablets, adding a cellular connectivity option tends to bump the price up, and a 5G option would likely be a considerable bump compared to just 4G LTE connectivity.
But, it may be worth it for some.
The OnePlus 7 release date is expected in the next few weeks, and due to all of the rumors, we know so much about this phone and the OnePlus 7 Pro already.
New OnePlus 7 leaks point to at least two phones that will compete with the best smartphones especially the best Android smartphones with a gaming-ready silky smooth screen that has a 90Hz refresh rate.
OnePlus has even told us one core feature about its next handset: the OnePlus 7 will be one of the first phones to support 5G.
But it may not arrive on its own, with rumors pointing to a OnePlus 7 Pro as well as the standard OnePlus 7.
Update: OnePlus 7 will have a 'super-smooth screen, according to its CEO, which hints at the 90Hz refresh rate.
The phone may also come with a gradient color scheme.
Below you'll find everything that we've heard so far, and well be sure to add any leaks and rumors on the OnePlus 7 to this page when we hear them.
Cut to the chase What OnePlus 7 it?
The next numbered phone from OnePlus The next numbered phone from OnePlus When OnePlus 7 it out?
Leaks point to a May 14 Leaks point to a May 14 What will OnePlus 7 cost?
Probably at least $549 / 499 / AU$599 The OnePlus 7 will probably land sometime in the middle of 2019.
The OnePlus 6 was announced on May 16, 2018, so a OnePlus 7 launch date of May 2019 is a possibility.
That fits nicely with a OnePlus 7 launch date leak which pegs the device's arrival for May 14.
That's a date that we've now heard more than once, even if the OnePlus 5 and OnePlus 3 arrived in June of their respective years.
There's no word on the OnePlus 7 price, but the OnePlus 6T - the most recent handset from the firm launched at $549 / 499 / AU$599 and prices have been gradually creeping up since the range began, so wed expect the OnePlus 7 will cost at least that much if not more.
If you want 5G though you might have to pay more.
OnePlus has confirmed that it's working on a 5G phone and while it's not known whether the OnePlus 7 will support 5G, the company's CEO has said that its 5G handset will cost between $200 and $300 more than its next 4G device.
The 90Hz refresh rate and 5G capabilities are where the OnePlus 7 Pro may come into place.
We know the company is working on both a 5G and a 4G phone, so you should be able to get a OnePlus 7 4G phone if you're not up for paying so much.
And in the US you might be able to buy it from a carrier, as this is something OnePlus has said it's looking into again.
Last year's OnePlus 6T was available through T-Mobile if you didn't want to pay for the entire phone upfront and unlocked.
Image Credit: TechRadar OnePlus 7 news and rumors We've seen numerous images seemingly showing the OnePlus 7, with the clearest look coming from the renders below, which show an almost bezel-free screen with a pop-up selfie camera, while the back has a triple-lens camera.
Image 1 of 4 Image Credit: @OnLeaks (Image: Image Credit: @OnLeaks) Image 2 of 4 Image Credit: @OnLeaks (Image: Image Credit: @OnLeaks) Image 3 of 4 Image Credit: @OnLeaks (Image: Image Credit: @OnLeaks) Image 4 of 4 Image Credit: @OnLeaks (Image: Image Credit: @OnLeaks) You can also see this design in some renders from a case-maker.
The pop-up selfie camera isn't visible, but a cut-out in the cases to make space for it is.
These images can be seen below.
Image 1 of 3 Image Credit: @Sudhanshu1414 Image 2 of 3 Image Credit: @Sudhanshu1414 Image 3 of 3 Image Credit: @Sudhanshu1414 That same design was suggested in leaked photos too, some of which show an all-screen design with no visible selfie camera, and one of which shows a raised section slightly above the screen, which could be part of the mechanism for a slide-out camera.
Image 1 of 3 Image Credit: @Steven_Sbw Image 2 of 3 Image Credit: @Steven_Sbw Image 3 of 3 Image Credit: SlashLeaks Since then we've seen other photos, but these supposedly show the 'OnePlus 7 Pro', which according to another source is one of three upcoming models - the other two being the OnePlus 7 and OnePlus 7 Pro 5G.
The photos of the OnePlus 7 Pro can be seen below, showing a curved screen and no top bezel.
The images also list the phone as having a 6.67-inch screen, a Snapdragon 855 chipset, 8GB of RAM, 256GB of storage, and three cameras, with 48MP, 16MP and 8MP lenses.
Image Credit: IT station (Weibo) It seems that all of the images showing a phone with a pop-up camera might actually be the OnePlus 7 Pro though, according to a recent leak, which included renders supposedly showing the standard OnePlus 7.
You can see these below.
They look a lot like the OnePlus 6T, with a teardrop notch rather than a pop-up camera and two rather than three rear cameras, though unlike the 6T the flash is inside the camera block, and the screen is apparently 6.2 inches (where the 6T is 6.41).
Image 1 of 3 Image credit: Pricebaba / @OnLeaks Image 2 of 3 Image credit: Pricebaba / @OnLeaks Image 3 of 3 Image credit: Pricebaba / @OnLeaks Since then we've heard more details about the possible specs of the OnePlus 7 Pro.
According to a reliable source, the OnePlus 7 Pro has a QHD+ Super AMOLED screen with a 90Hz refresh rate.
That makes it higher resolution than any current OnePlus handset and with a higher refresh rate than most phones from any company.
A high refresh rate can make interactions feel smoother.
While this is the first we've heard of such a high refresh rate, it looks likely to be the case, as the CEO of OnePlus has also tweeted a teaser saying that the next product from the company will not just be fast but also smooth.
Excited to share the next product from OnePlus will unleash a new era of Fast and Smooth.
Especially Smooth!
Smooth is more challenging than Fast - a true test of hardware and software.The new product is just beautiful - I can't wait for you to see it!
pic.twitter.com/yPU9sEbeIvApril 17, 2019 The same source as those screen details above came from also says that the OnePlus 7 Pro has dual speakers, a 4,000mAh battery with 30W Warp Charge (a speedy charging tech), and a triple-lens rear camera, including both a telephoto lens and a wide-angle one.
And another source has outlined some of the possible differences between the OnePlus 7 and the OnePlus 7 Pro.
They say that while the OnePlus 7 has a 6.4-inch flat screen, the 7 Pro has a 6.64-inch curved one, and that as the pictures above show the OnePlus 7 has a teardrop notch, while the Pro has a pop-up camera and no notch.
They also say that there are two rear cameras on the OnePlus 7, with one of them being 48MP.
The OnePlus 7 Pro also apparently has a 48MP lens, but joined by two others - a telephoto one and an ultra-wide one.
They also mention the OnePlus 7 Pro 5G, which sounds to have the same specs as the standard Pro model, just with 5G on board.
That's believable, as the company has previously claimed that it will launch one of the first 5G phones this year.
The OnePlus 7 isn't named, but that's possibly what they're talking about (though the company's first 5G-capable phone might end up being the next one released, the OnePlus 7T).
Likewise, the company announced it will release the first 5G phone in Europe.
OnePlus is partnering with the UK network EE to bring said phone to the UK at some point in 2019.
A prototype of that phone has been shown off, complete with a Snapdragon 855 chipset and what appears to be a 21:9 screen - though elsewhere there are reports that the final device won't have a 21:9 screen, and nor will it have wireless charging.
But it's entirely possible that the OnePlus 7 won't be the 5G-connected phone the company has been talking about.
Sources said that the 5G device will be the first in an entirely new line, and another rumor hinted that it may start at $649 (or $100 more than the 6T).
That said, as noted above, more than one source reckons the 5G phone will be called the OnePlus 7 Pro 5G, suggesting it will be a version of the OnePlus 7.
We've also seen possible case renders for the 5G model, which you can see below.
We'd take these with a huge side of salt though, as they look more like the OnePlus 6T than most of the OnePlus 7 leaks we're seeing.
They do look similar to some renders above, supposedly showing the standard OnePlus 7, but we'd expect the 5G model to be more in line with the OnePlus 7 Pro.
Image 1 of 3 Image credit: @Sudhanshu1414 Image 2 of 3 Image credit: @Sudhanshu1414 Image 3 of 3 Image credit: @Sudhanshu1414 We also have an idea of what colors the OnePlus 7 Pro at least might come in.
Most images has shown it in black, which is very likely to be one option, but a couple of case renders have shown it in gradient color schemes.
You can see these below - one goes from green to black to blue, while the other shifts from pink to black to purple.
We'd take these with a pinch of salt, but they'd certainly help it stand out.
Image 1 of 2 Image credit: Olixar / MobileFun Image 2 of 2 Image credit: Olixar / MobileFun Beyond all this, all models of the OnePlus 7 will probably have a glass back, since OnePlus only recently switched to glass with the OnePlus 6 and OnePlus 6T.
Its likely to also have an alert slider, since previous handsets in the range do, and its sure to have the best Qualcomm Snapdragon chipset available - the Snapdragon 855.
The OnePlus 7 is sure to also have loads of RAM.
The OnePlus 6T tops out at 8GB and the company has also launched OnePlus 6T McLaren Edition which has 10GB of RAM, so the OnePlus 7 may well match that.
Dont expect a microSD card slot though based on past form and the screen resolution is very much a question mark OnePlus has consistently stuck with Full HD resolutions, but thats feeling ever more dated so sooner or later wed expect a switch to QHD or higher.
Since the 6T got rid of the headphone jack, it's likely OnePlus won't bring it back for the 7.
What we want to see We dont know anything much about the OnePlus 7 yet but based on the OnePlus 6 and whats going on in the rest of the phone world we know what we want from it.
1.
A QHD screen The OnePlus 6 has a good screen, but it could stand to be sharper OnePlus always packs its phones full of cutting-edge specs and features, yet it always sticks with a Full HD screen, which isnt a match for most of the top-end flagships.
That may well be keeping costs down, but its time the range made the jump to QHD, especially given that its screens are getting bigger, so we want to see that happen for the OnePlus 7.
2.
A microSD card slot You can get a decent amount of storage in the OnePlus 6 but you dont get a microSD card slot, so if the amount it ships with isnt enough youll have to start deleting things.
Thats not ideal and while the 256GB top size should be plenty for most people it wont be for everyone especially those who plan to pack their phone full of music, films and games.
So adding a slot into the OnePlus 7 would be much appreciated.
3.
Proper water resistance The OnePlus 6 should survive a spill, but we want more of a guarantee from the OnePlus 7 The OnePlus 6 has some water resistance, but it doesnt have an IP rating.
So it should be able to survive a splash if you dry it off quickly but cant really be put in the water.
Not that wed advise doing that in general with most phones, but knowing that it would survive if you did or if you use it in heavy rain - could give some real peace of mind that you dont get with the OnePlus 6, so wed like to see this improved for the OnePlus 7.
4.
Stereo speakers The OnePlus 6 has just a single speaker, and its placement at the base of the phone makes it easy to muffle, so wed like to see it ideally moved and definitely doubled up for the OnePlus 7, with a second speaker allowing for loud stereo sound.
Sure, youll probably mostly use headphones anyway, but having a quality speaker setup can make all the difference when you just want to watch a YouTube video or listen to a podcast without plugging in.
5.
No notch For the OnePlus 7 we want no notch and no bezels The OnePlus 6T is one of many recent phones to get a notch, and while it can be hidden if you prefer, what wed really prefer for the OnePlus 7 is no notch at all.
But we dont want a return to big bezels either.
Were starting to see phones like the Vivo Nex and Oppo Find X which have almost no bezel at all and wed like the OnePlus 7 to join them.
This isnt out of the question, especially as Oppo is heavily linked with OnePlus.
In fact, current leaks point in this direction.
6.
Wireless charging Despite having a glass back, the OnePlus 6 doesnt support wireless charging, which seems like a major omission for a flagship phone.
This is probably a cost-cutting measure and, in a sense, seems reasonable, since we doubt wireless charging is a heavily used feature, but it would be nice to have.
7.
An in-screen camera Along with an all-screen design wed like the OnePlus 7 to have an in-screen camera.
Most leaks point in the direction of a pop-up solution, but an in-screen one would be so much more elegant.
We don't think this is likely for the OnePlus 7, but you never know.
After all, just such a camera has been rumored for at least one phone.
Spring is officially here, and for most of us, that means beautiful weather, vacations and the inevitable spring cleaning.
To help you with this daunting task, retailers like Walmart are slashing the prices on top-brand cleaning appliances that can normally be quite pricey.
Right now you can get the Dyson DC33 Upright Vacuum on sale for $179.99.
That's a $100 discount and the best price we've seen for the bagless vacuum.
The Dyson vacuum cleaner works on all indoor surfaces so you can seamlessly clean your carpets, tile and wood floors without having to switch inputs or change the vacuum head.
The powerful DC33 features root cyclone technology and a lifetime HEPA filter to capture dirt and microscopic particles and remove allergens and bacteria from your home.
Because this vacuum is bagless, the dirt is stored in a hygienic bin that's conveniently released with a push of the button.
The Dyson DC33 includes a wand and hose that releases in one smooth action and includes tools to help clean hard to reach areas such as curtains, stairs, ceilings and more.
Dyson vacuum deals: Dyson DC33 Multifloor Bagless Upright Vacuum $279 $179.99 at Walmart You can save $100 on the Dyson DC33 Vacuum cleaner at Walmart.
This is the best price we've seen for the bagless upright vacuum that works on all floor types and has a two-year warranty on parts and labor.View Deal If you're interested in a cordless vacuum cleaner, Amazon has the best-selling Dyson V6 Motorhead Vacuum on sale for $149.99.
The powerful V6 offers 75% more brush bar power than the V6 Cord-free vacuum and the motorized head can clean any floor type.
Dyson V6 Motorhead Cord Free Vacuum $249.99 $149.99 at Amazon Save $100 on the powerful Dyson V6 vacuum at Amazon.
The Cord-free vacuum converts to a hand-held vacuum for convenient cleaning and offers a 20 minute run time after a full charge.View Deal If you want to shop other Dyson vacuum sales, see our best cheap Dyson deals and offers that are currently available.
Interested in robot vacuums?
We also have the best robot vacuum cleaner sales and deals.
Update: Samsung has officially announced it's delaying the Galaxy Fold, specifically pointing to feedback from early reviewers that showed the device "needs further improvements."
Initial findings, the company wrote, suggested the impact on top and bottom of the hinge might have lead to issues with the display, as well as substances that filtered into the device.
Samsung didn't state how long the launch would be delayed, only that they'll announce a new release date "in the coming weeks."
The Galaxy Fold is malfunctioning, according to a handful of tech journalists, and that's been enough for Samsung to delay the planned April 26 launch by a least a month, according to The Wall Street Journal .
Sources told the publication that they havent decided on a specific launch date for the Fold, but said that the revised rollout window should be in the coming weeks.
Make room for the OnePlus 7 launch Here are the foldable phones coming Closer than ever: Android Q release date This news comes a day after another report claimed the Galaxy Fold launches had been delayed in China, but was still scheduled for April 26 in the US.
Assumedly, the Wall Street Journal's story suggests a larger global launch delay in a rush to fix the issues that have called the Galaxy Folds durability into question.
Fixing the fold Several tech outlets and online reviewers who got an early look at the device which was slated to be the worlds first mainstream foldable phone to hit stands innocuously peeled off what looked to be a screen protector covering the unfolded inner screen.
This caused the inside display to malfunction and, in some cases, stop working entirely.
At least one other reporter, who didnt remove the inner screen protector, tweeted that one side of the display started flickering after a few days of basic wear and tear.
Another said in a tweet that one side was responding faster than the other, resulting in a jelly problem.
If you're looking for a cheap and easy-to-install home security system, then you've come to the right place.
Amazon has the wireless Blink XT home security kit on sale for just $79.99.
That's a $50 discount and the lowest price we've found for the best-selling one-camera system.
The Blink home security camera is battery powered and includes two AA lithium batteries that offer an impressive two-year battery life.
The weatherproof security camera can be used for indoor and outdoor use and features infrared night vision so you can monitor your home in the dark.
The Blink camera also includes a built-in motion sensor that sends alerts to your smartphone or tablet when motion is detected.
There's no monthly subscription fee with Blink, and you can even stream a live HD video from the camera with the compatible app.
The Blink XT also works with Amazon Alexa so you can control your entire home security system with the command of your voice.
Like we mentioned above, this is the best price we've seen for the top-rated Blink XT, so if you've wanted to add security to your home - now is a perfect time.
Blink XT Home Security Camera System $129.99 $79.99 at Amazon Get the Blink XT home security camera on sale for $79.99 at Amazon.
The one camera system is weatherproof and can be used for both indoor and outdoor use.View Deal If you're interested in a two-camera kit, Amazon has the Blink XT home security system on sale for $139.99.
That's a $90 discount and the best price we've found for the two-camera security kit.
Blink XT Home Security Camera System $229.99 $139.99 at Amazon You can get the Blink XT Home Security Camera System on sale at Amazon for $139.99.
The Blink camera kit includes a two Blink cameras and mounting kits, a quick start guide, and AA lithium batteries.View Deal You can find more home security sales with the best cheap home security camera deals that are currently available.
You can also shop more smart home deals with the best cheap smart home devices and gadget deals.
Your decision between the forthcoming OnePlus 7 and OnePlus 7 Pro just a little bit easier to make, thanks to fresh specs confirmed by the company's CEO today.
The OnePlus 7 Pro will feature a new display that 'stunned' CEO Peter Lau, who has described it as "super-smooth and very crisp," according to an interview with The Verge.
We're already asking: when will get Android Q?
This is a direct threat to the Samsung Galaxy S10 Will is be among the best gaming phones?
Previous rumors suggest that the OnePlus 7 Pro display will sport a 90Hz refresh rate, and that appears to be exactly what Lau is translating in this interview.
The piece also indicates that 5G will be offered by the OnePlus 7 series, making it one of the first 5G phones in the world, though it also tempers 5G expectations.
That's very not different from many of the first 5G phones we tested.
Two reasons the OnePlus 7 Pro display matters We've seen smartphone screens with higher-than-60Hz refresh rates before: 90Hz from the Asus ROG Phone and even 120Hz from the Razer Phone and Razer Phone 2.
They are silky smooth when gaming and even when scrolling a webpage.
However, if the OnePlus 7 Pro indeed has a 90Hz refresh rate, it'll be the first inside of a more mainstream phone, not a gaming-centric handset for a niche audience.
That's an important development that could push Samsung and Apple to finally adopt similar screen technology.
But, equally important is how it'll effect the price.
The OnePlus interview suggests that the company is paying three times as much for the cutting-edge display in the OnePlus 7 Pro.
For OnePlus fans used to a cheap phone with flagship-level specs, this is going to be a different sort of game changer.
Some people want a tablet as a cheap laptop-lite, but others are looking for a processing powerhouse with an impressive display and other cutting-edge features, and both Apple and Samsung have this corner of the market covered with the iPad Pro 12.9 (2018) and the Samsung Galaxy Tab S4 , two top-end tablets.
Both companies have designed devices that could easily trump many laptops in terms of specs and design, but they also sit at the top of the food chain in terms of price, and youll have a hard time spending more on a slate than you can on these two tablets.
Check out our best iPad deals Check out our best Samsung tablet deals But which premium tablet is the best you can buy right now, the Android or iOS powerhouse?
We put the two head-to-head to figure it out.
Price Image 1 of 2 Samsung Galaxy Tab S4.
Image credit: Samsung Image 2 of 2 iPad Pro 12.9 (2018).
Image credit: TechRadar One massive difference between the iPad Pro 12.9 and Samsung Galaxy Tab S4 is the price.
The Galaxy Tab S4 comes in two variants, one with 4GB of RAM and 64GB of storage, which will set you back $650 / 509 / AU$979 for a Wi-Fi-only connection or $730 / 559 / AU$1,179 for LTE, and another with 256GB storage which costs $750 / AU$1,179 for Wi-Fi and AU$1,379 for LTE this larger size isnt available in the UK or with cell connection in the US.
You can buy the iPad Pro with four different amounts of memory 64GB, 256GB, 512GB, and a massive 1TB model and after that you can choose Wi-Fi-only or LTE, and on top of that the Apple Pencil ($129 / 119 / AU$199) and Smart Keyboard ($169 / 169 / AU$299) arent included, whereas the S Pen is for the Galaxy Tab S4, which will all add up quickly.
For a full breakdown of all the iPad Pro 12.9 prices check out the graph below, but just know you could be spending between $999 / 969 / AU$1529 and $2,197 / 2,157 / AU$3,367 depending on the size of the tablet and how many peripherals you include thats a considerable amount more than the Galaxy Tab S4.
The iPad Pro 12.9 (2018) image prices.
Image credit: TechRadar Display The iPad Pro 12.9 has a significantly bigger display than the Samsung Galaxy Tab S4, which at 10.5 inches is closer in size to the aging iPad Pro 10.5 .
The iPad Pro 12.9 has an LCD display with Apples Liquid Retina LCD tech, which is nearly as sharp and colorful as a typical OLED display, and colors shown on it were bright and clear, although black wasnt exactly as dark as it would be on an OLED screen.
Image 1 of 2 Samsung Galaxy Tab S4.
Image credit: TechRadar Image 2 of 2 iPad Pro 12.9 (2018).
Image credit: TechRadar The Samsung Galaxy Tab S4 has an AMOLED display, which displays colors just that little bit better, and has a higher max brightness as well.
However, youre getting 2.4 inches less of that high-quality display than the iPad Pro, and pixel density is similar, with the 1600 x 2560 Tab S4 coming in at 287 pixels per inch, while the iPads 2048 x 2732 screen is 265 pixels per inch, so its up to you which is better for content and work.
Design With a bigger screen comes a bigger body, and fittingly the iPad Pro 12.9 is a much bigger tablet than the Samsung Galaxy Tab S4.
With a 280.6 x 214.9 x 5.9mm body, the iPad Pro 12.9 (2018) is very wide, although its actually thinner than the Galaxy Tab S4, which has dimensions of 249.3 x 164.3 x 7.1 mm, though 7.1mm is still thin as handheld devices go.
Theres a big weight difference though while the iPad Pro 12.9 weighs 631g for the Wi-Fi model and 633g for LTE, the Galaxy Tab S4 is much lighter at 482g and 483g respectively.
Image 1 of 2 Samsung Galaxy Tab S4.
Image credit: TechRadar Image 2 of 2 iPad Pro 12.9 (2018).
Image credit: TechRadar In terms of overall appearance, though, the iPad Pro 12.9 (2018) and Galaxy Tab S4 are probably the most similar an iOS and Android tablet have looked they both have button-less fronts with screens that go nearly to the edge, and they both have rears that are rather clean save for a camera (the Galaxy Tab S4 has one thats central, whereas the iPad Pros is in a corner).
One difference that may make a difference to some is regarding headphone ports the iPad Pro 12.9 (2018) doesnt have one and youd have to use an adaptor with its USB-C port if you want to use wired headphones, whereas the Galaxy Tab S4 comes with a 3.5mm headphone jack alongside its USB-C connector.
Peripherals Both the iPad Pro 12.9 and Samsung Galaxy Tab S4 have a pen and keyboard peripheral to change how you use the tablet.
You can get the S Pen, the Galaxy Tab S4s stylus, included with the tablet, however the Apple Pencil for the iPad Pro costs $129 / 119 / AU$199.
We found the S Pen great for purpose unlike the Apple Pencil it doesnt require charging, has a holster on the keyboard, and has a protrusion on the side so it doesnt roll away, so its probably the better tablet stylus.
Image 1 of 2 Samsung Galaxy Tab S4.
Image credit: TechRadar Image 2 of 2 iPad Pro 12.9 (2018).
Image credit: TechRadar You have to buy both the Smart Keyboard ($169 / 169 / AU$299) for the iPad Pro and the Book Cover Keyboard ($150, roughly 115, AU$210) for the Galaxy Tab S4, but we found the latter too fiddly, with loads of unnecessary buttons, and it slowed down our workflow, so we cant recommend it as a useful addition.
Battery life The iPad Pro 12.9 has a 9,720mAh battery while the Samsung Galaxy Tab S4s power pack is only 7,300mAh on the surface it would seem that the former would last far longer, but thats not necessarily the truth.
The iPad Pro 12.9 (2018) didnt feel optimized for everyday use, and it lost charge rather quickly for its battery size, whereas the Galaxy Tab S4 seemed to last a lot longer in our experience.
When we put them both through our battery test, in which we play a 90-minute video at full brightness with Wi-Fi on and accounts syncing in the background, the iPad Pro lost 22% charge while the Galaxy Tab S4 only dropped 12% that shows the latter is optimized a lot better for media use, and can play games or stream content for longer.
Samsung Galaxy Tab S4.
Image credit: TechRadar Charging was quicker on the iPad Pro though, as it took two and a half hours to charge to full instead of three and a quarter.
Neither supports wireless charging, which is a shame because of how convenient the feature is, but also understandable given the confusing logistics of balancing a tablet on a wireless charger.
Features The biggest difference between the two tablets is that the Samsung Galaxy Tab S4 runs the Android 9 operating system whereas the iPad Pro 12.9 runs on Apples iOS 12 both have fans and people who dislike them, but ultimately they run rather similarly.
In terms of specs, the iPad Pro 12.9 (2018) knocks its competitor out of the water.
While the Galaxy Tab S4 runs on a mid-to-high range Snapdragon 835 chipset, and has 4GB of RAM, the iPad Pro has the superior A12X Bionic processor with 4GB of RAM (unless you get the 1TB version with 6GB).
This extra processing power gets you a faster framerate in games, quicker video rendering, and a whole other range of features.
iPad Pro 12.9 (2018).
Image credit: TechRadar Other than that, the tablets run in pretty similar ways both support face recognition to unlock, both can support split-screen modes so you can run multiple apps at the same time, and both are just as useful as media players as they are work tools.
Verdict The biggest thing to decide if youre split between an iPad Pro 12.9 (2018) or a Samsung Galaxy Tab S4 is the price the cheapest iPad Pro model costs quite a bit more than the Galaxy Tab S4, and the most expensive model costs a lot more.
Whether the extra price will provide extra value depends on what youre looking for in a tablet the extra screen space, better specs and access to iOS (which, if were being honest, is a little better suited to tablets) is a blessing, but if you just want a big phone you dont need to shell out that much.
Getting started with WordPress website hosting doesn't have to be expensive, after all the 15-year old WordPress is free (and open source).
Even the cheapest shared hosting plan usually comes with a one-click WordPress installer, allowing the greenest of blogging newbies to have their first post ready in less than 60 seconds (we tried it).
Managing a blog over time is much more challenging, though.
You'll need to find your own themes and plugins.
And also keep them, and WordPress itself, up-to-date (although you can even get that done automatically).
Blogs are often targeted by malware, so it's important you have some way to detect and remove any threats, and you'll want regular backups to help get a broken blog working again.
There's a long list of hosting companies offering WordPress plans, but we've picked out five of the best to point you in the right direction.
Whether you're a first-time user or a big business, there's something for you here, and with prices starting at around a pound per month, it's well worth taking the time to find out more.
Want your company or services to be added to this buyers guide?
Please email your request to desire.athow@futurenet.com with the URL of the buying guide in the subject line.
These are the best WordPress hosting services of 2019 Image Credit: Bluehost Best professional-level host Optimized low-level setup Many powerful extras Not cheap Budget WordPress hosting can have a lot of appeal, but it usually won't deliver the features, performance or reliability that high traffic sites need.
If you're the demanding type, opting for a premium hosting plan will give you much better results.
Bluehost has created its own VPS-based architecture to deliver optimum WordPress performance via NGINX, a custom PHP-FPM setup and intelligently allocated resources through KVM hypervisor.
(If you're not a hosting geek, this just means Bluehost has taken the time to optimize the low-level setup of its platform for WordPress, rather than simply making do with a standard configuration.)
The company doesn't waste time by pretending to offer unlimited resources, and instead tells you exactly what you're going to get.
For the WP Standard plan, this means 30GB storage, 1TB bandwidth, and key resources 2GB RAM, two CPU cores which are allocated to you, and not shared with anyone else.
Premium features include SiteLock Pro to keep your website malware-free, SiteLock CDN to optimize performance, a dedicated IP, and the ability to manage multiple sites with the excellent ManageWP.
New Bluehost accounts will also get a free service called Blue Spark, which is designed to help newcomers with everything WordPress related.
This isn't cheap, with even the baseline Standard plan costing $19.99 (15.20) a month for the initial term, rising to $39.99 (28.60) afterwards.
But you are getting a lot for your money, and if you're more interested in power than price, Bluehost has even more available.
The top-of-the-range Ultimate plan, for instance, gives you four CPU cores, 8GB RAM, 240GB storage and a monster 4TB bandwidth.
SiteLock Enterprise handles all your security and CDN needs, and there's a wildcard SSL thrown in.
Ultimate costs $49.99 (35.70) a month initially, $129.99 (93) after that, but that's a fair price for this spec, and Bluehost offers a 30-day money-back guarantee if you feel the service doesn't deliver.
There are also shared WordPress hosting plans available with fewer features and lower performance but they are cheaper, starting at $2.95 ($7.99 on renewal) per month.
Furthermore, a managed hosting solution called WordPress Pro that has been optimized for WordPress websites is also available, with prices starting at $19.95 per month.
Image Credit: Tsohost Best for UK customers Great value pricing 24/7 support on basic plan Not much in the way of extras Managed WordPress packages can often feel overpriced.
Many hosts charge significant premiums for impressive sounding claims optimized servers, malware scanning that are difficult to evaluate or confirm.
The UK-based Tsohost isn't interested in any of that, instead focusing on providing the core WordPress essentials at a very fair price.
The baseline Startup plan gives you a free domain name, will migrate your existing site, includes Let's Encrypt SSL support and has no limits on bandwidth.
You get daily backups and can restore any of the last 30 days with a click.
There's 24/7 support via ticket and email, and phone and live chat is available from 7am to midnight.
You get a hundred 200MB mailboxes, and the plan restricts you to 15GB storage and 100,000 page views a month.
If that's enough for you, the plan costs ~$4.15(3.16) a month paid annually, or ~$3.8(2.92) if you pay for two years upfront.
If that's just too underpowered, opting for the Business plan gets you 50GB of storage, 100x1GB mailboxes, and up to 500,000 page views over a maximum of eight websites.
That's significantly more capable, yet still very reasonably priced at ~$11.50(8.78) a month, ~$9.62(7.33) a month paid annually or ~$8.65(6.59) a month paid biennially.
The ~$31.50(23.98) a month (~$26.20 a month paid annually or ~$23.60 a month paid biennially) eCommerce plan supports 100GB storage, 1,000,000 page views and unlimited 10GB mailboxes.
Tsohost doesn't offer all the frills and extras you'll get with some products.
There's no talk of SiteLock malware protection, optimized WordPress add-ons or a custom CDN.
But it's hard to complain at this price, and Tsohost is still delivering a capable service with more than enough power for smaller sites.
Image Credit: Inmotion Hosting Best host for choice of plans Low-end plans have key features Reliable hosting provider Not the cheapest host Most web hosts offer only a few WordPress plans, and even these might be set up to point you in a particular direction.
You'll often see an underpowered plan, an overpriced one, and a special deal on the mid-range plan they really want you to buy.
That makes it easy to decide, but it also limits your upgrade options if your site grows over time.
InMotion Hosting is unusual in offering six WordPress plans, covering everything from small personal blogs to resellers and big business.
Figuring out which is the best product for you will take a little more thought, but at least there's room to upgrade or downgrade if your circumstances change.
Better still, InMotion hasn't artificially limited the low-end plans by removing key features.
Even the baseline WP-1000S plan which costs $6.99 (5.3) a month initially (1-year plan), $9.99 (7.70) on renewal gives you 40GB storage, unlimited bandwidth and email addresses, preinstalled WordPress, SSL, backups, automatic updates, SiteLock security, cPanel site management, and extras like BoldGrid and WP-CLI.
The only significant issue is InMotion's suggestion that the plan works best for blogs with up to 20,000 monthly visits, and even that won't be a problem for many smaller sites.
Upgrading your plan gets you some extras premium themes and plugin subscriptions, a dedicated IP address, support for hosting more sites but it's mostly about giving you more resources.
For example, the top-of-the-range WP-6000S plan supports 1,200,000 monthly visitors across up to 20 sites for $114.99 (87.6) a month initially (1-year plan), $142.99 (110) on renewal.
There are cheaper deals around, but in previous reviews we've found InMotion to be reliable, professional and honest, and any price premium is likely to be worth paying.
You don't have to take our word for it, though an exceptional 90-day money-back guarantee gives you plenty of opportunity to find out for yourself.
Image Credit: 1&1 IONOS Best host for the novice Very tempting price for six months SSL and free domain 24/7 support including phone Web giant 1&1 IONOS seems to have a hosting product for every possible need, and WordPress is no exception.
Novice users can try out its service for a nominal $1(0.75) a month over the first six months ($9 or 6.90 afterwards), yet the plan still outperforms many competitors.
The bundled 25GB of storage means you won't be running out of space in a hurry, for example.
There are no bandwidth or visitor limits, and you can set up as many email accounts as you need.
1&1 IONOS offers the core WordPress management functions that you would expect: a setup wizard, preinstalled plugins, automatic updates and 24/7 support (including by telephone).
Also, you get a personal consultant free of charge.
All this is built on a capable platform NGINX, PHP 7.2, OPcache, up to 2GB RAM guaranteed to enhance your blog's performance.
There's SSL included and even a free domain thrown in, which is ridiculously good value at this price.
If you're a WordPress novice, it might be worth taking out the plan for an initial year, claiming your free domain and taking the time to learn how the blog works.
When you time is up, renew if you're happy, or if you're not, use your knowledge and experience to find a better plan.
1&1 IONOS isn't just about newbies, though: there's value for more demanding users, too.
In particular, the Pro plan gives you 5 managed Wordpress sites, 200GB SSD storage space, 50 databases (1GB max), and 500 email accounts.
Bonus features include a CDN and SiteLock malware scanning, as well as RailGun content delivery network, and the price looks good at $1(0.75) a month for the first six months, $15(11.50) on renewal.
Image Credit: HostGator Best all-rounder host Free site migration Automatic malware detection and removal CDN benefits Choosing the best WordPress hosting package can seem like a complicated business, with a stack of low-level details and issues to consider.
But it doesn't have to be that way.
If you don't have special requirements then opting for a reliable web hosting company will get you capable mid-range products that can handle everything most users need.
HostGator generally delivers powerful hosting plans for a fair price, and its managed WordPress range is no exception.
Its Starter product may only cost $5.95 (4.25) for three years, $9.95 (7.10) afterwards, but you still get a free site migration, an SSL certificate, automatic malware detection and removal, unlimited email addresses and unmetered storage and bandwidth, and it can handle up to 100,000 visits a month.
Ramping up to the high-end Business plan gets you more CPU power, support for up to three sites and 500,000 visits a month, yet still costs only $9.95 (7.10) a month initially (first three years), $22.95 (16.40) a month afterwards.
Smart caching and a CDN are on hand to enhance your website's performance, 24/7 support helps keep your site up and running, and surprise bonus features include free domain privacy to protect from identity theft and reduce annoying spam.
We've had good experiences with HostGator's service, but if you're not so lucky, there's a generous 45-day money-back guarantee.
As with other hosting companies, this won't cover any domain registration fees, but it's still a better deal than you'll often find elsewhere.
How to choose a WordPress web hosting provider?
If you don't have the time or technical experience for all that, you might prefer to buy a managed WordPress hosting plan, and have the hosting company handle all the technical bits for you.
The host will often import your previous WordPress blog, if you have one.
Usually you'll get some preinstalled themes and plugins to simplify customization.
There should at least be an option to automatically update the site, a security service like SiteLock will be on hand to keep your blog malware-free, and we would expect 24/7 support from a team with real WordPress knowledge.
The best hosts go even further, optimizing their servers to boost WordPress performance, and sometimes throwing in extras like a content delivery network (CDN) to deliver great speeds worldwide (hopefully).
You might also want to check out our other website hosting buying guides:
The more precise Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant can be, the more useful they are and with that in mind the UK government has added a hefty 12,000 pieces of information to the digital assistants.
That means not only can you ask your smart speaker how the weather forecast is looking or how tall the Tower of London is, you can also ask when the next bank holiday is scheduled for or what the current minimum wage is.
The data also covers questions like "what age can I retire?"
and "how do I apply for a passport?"
all the sort of stuff you might search a government website for (the Gov.uk sites are the primary source for the new data).
"This is all about making life easier for people who need to access information about government services," Minister for Implementation Oliver Dowden said in a press statement.
"And with millions now using smart speakers, I want government to keep up and work smarter too."
More on the way The new information data dump is the result of six months of testing, planning and preparation, and should be live now on devices enabled with Alexa or Google Assistant there's no need to run a manual update.
Government agencies say more information is on the way too, and smart speakers could soon be able to give you details of how to get married and how to renew your car tax.
It's more evidence of the growing intelligence of these smart assistants, which to begin with could run basic web searches for data and that was about it.
Nowadays they're far more nuanced and comprehensive but the most accurate and useful results come when information is specifically organised and added, as is the case with the UK government here.
Via Android Police
Celebrating its first anniversary, Realme Mobiles unveiled their top-of-the-line Realme 3 Pro that is going to take on the Xiaomi Redmi Note 7 Pro in India.
In just a short span of one year, the company has managed to take the fight to mid-range champions.
Realme 3, which was launched just last month, has sold more than 600,000 units and has garnered a positive response.
On the other side, we have Xiaomis crown jewel in the mid-range market, the Redmi Note 7 Pro which is the best phone one can get under Rs 15,000 in India.
So, does the Realme 3 Pro manage to do one better than the Redmi Note 7 Pro?
We find out in our specifications based comparison of both the phones.
Price and availability Realme 3 Pro and Redmi Note 7 Pro are priced at the same mark- Rs 13,999 with 4GB RAM and Rs 16,999 with 6GB RAM.
While the Redmi Note 7 Pro is selling like hot cakes both offline and online, Realme 3 Pro is set to go on its first sale on April 29 on Flipkart and Realme India Store.
Design and Display Built out of polycarbonate, the Realme 3 Pro is 8.3 mm thick while the Redmi Note 7 Pro beats it at 8.1 mm even after having a glass built.
Theres a layer of Gorilla Glass 5 on the front and back of the Note 7 Pro, while the Realme 3 Pro has it on the display.
The Redmi Note 7 Pro comes in three gradient color options- red, blue and black while the Realme 3 Pro will be available in grey, blue and purple hues.
Both the phones have a 6.3-inch IPS display with Full HD+ (2340 x 1080 pixels) resolution, topped with Gorilla Glass 5.
The two phones implement a similar u-shaped notch design, giving the screen a 19.5:9 aspect ratio.
Given the asking price, the display on the Redmi Note 7 Pro is just good, as we noted in our review.
Camera Realme 3 Pro brings the Sony IMX519 sensor with its dual camera setup.
Theres a primary 16MP camera with an f/1.7 aperture which is assisted by a 5MP depth sensor.
Redmi Note 7 Pro has a dual camera setup on the rear which consists of a primary 48MP sensor and a 5MP secondary camera for depth-sensing.
On the front, the Realme 3 Pro sports a 25MP snapper whereas the Note 7 Pro has a 13MP selfie camera.
The phones pack in really advanced photography hardware and we really impressed by the Redmi Note 7 Pro during our time with it.
As for the Realme 3 Pro, we will be using its camera for some more time to have a verdict.
Performance and battery Powered by Qualcomm Snapdragon 710, the Realme 3 Pro has an octa-core CPU and Adreno 616 as its graphics processor.
The Snapdragon 710 is usually found on phones priced upwards of Rs 20,000 but the Realme 3 Pro brings it down to the mid-range segment.
Under the hood, Redmi Note 7 Pro is powered by Snapdragon 675 chipset with an octa-core CPU and Adreno 612.
Both the phones are offered in two variants- 4GB RAM with 64GB storage and 6GB of RAM with 128GB onboard storage.
Realme 3 Pro has a 4,045mAh battery which supports fast charging via VOOC 3.0 charging solution.
The VOOC 3.0 20W adapter is provided in-the-box and can charge the battery upto 50% in around 30 minutes.
The Note 7 Pro is fitted with a 4,000mAh battery and supports Qualcomm Quick Charge 4 but the fast charging adapted isnt provided in-the-box and has to be purchased as a separate accessory.
Well be using the Realme 3 Pro and will update this comparison with our overall experience soon.
Marvel Studios Most of us won't get to see Avengers: Endgame for a few days yet, but those lucky few who got an early glimpse started sharing reactions on social media Monday night.
And so far, it's looking like a superpowered success.
(No spoilers ahead.)
Now playing: Watch this: Preparing for a 59-hour Marvel movie marathon "Avengers: Endgame is a masterful epic -- a true culmination of 22 films that not only concludes the story, but expands upon it," tweeted Erik Davis, managing editor at Fandango.
"You'll learn more about the other movies while this one unfolds.
If Infinity War is the brawn, Endgame is the brains.
And wow, what an ending!"
#AvengersEndgame is a masterful epic - a true culmination of 22 films that not only concludes the story, but expands upon it.
Youll learn more about the other movies while this one unfolds.
If Infinity War is the brawn, Endgame is the brains.
And wow, what an ending!
pic.twitter.com/94ttBUQKJ0 Erik Davis (@ErikDavis) April 23, 2019 Critic Scott Mantz dubbed it the "greatest superhero movie EVER," and loaded up on capital letters.
INCREDIBLE!!
#AVENGERS #ENDGAME brings the entire MCU to a rousing, exciting, deeply moving & wholly satisfying conclusion!
Its a *BEAUTIFUL* film!
Fun, smart, clever, BRILLIANT!
Perfect blend of action, heart & humor!
This is as good as it gets!
Greatest superhero movie EVER!
pic.twitter.com/dMeLtvO7Gy Scott Mantz (@MovieMantz) April 23, 2019 Davis and Mantz weren't alone.
Most of those who shared their reactions on social seemed to be as in love with the movie as Captain America is with Peggy Carter.
Writer Mark Hughes called it "the film of the year," and warned fans to "reset your expectations AGAIN."
#AvengersEndgame is the film of the year.
If you thought youd seen comics brought fully to the big screen already, prepare to reset your expectations AGAIN.#MCU #Avengers #Endgame #EndgamePremiereLA #EndgamePremiere Mark Hughes (@markhughesfilms) April 23, 2019 Wow.
#AvengersEndgame is staggering.
Its surprising in ways I never saw coming and satisfying in ways I didnt realize I needed.
Its kind of the ultimate gift to fans of the MCU.
Its very long and has a few hiccups, but is everything youre hoping for and more.
pic.twitter.com/RO97kw9fs5 Germain Lussier (@GermainLussier) April 23, 2019 #AvengerEndgame is an immensely satisfying payoff, not just to Infinity War but to all the films that came before.
This is why the MCU.
(And I say this as someone who was not especially enamored of Infinity War, FWIW.)
Angie J. Han (@ajhan) April 23, 2019 I was not prepared for the range of emotions that #Endgame put me through, from utter despair to pure elation.
I laughed, I cried, I wished Tony Stark was my dad.
Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) April 23, 2019 "I am an emotional wreck and can't stop crying," tweeted Maude Garrett.
All Im going to say about @Avengers #EndGame is that I am an emotional wreck and cant stop crying Maude Garrett (@maudegarrett) April 23, 2019 CHRIS EVANS SAID HE CRIED SIX TIMES WATCHING ENDGAME,, IM SCARED NONE OF US WILL SURVIVE THIS MOVIE gendrya warrior // 2 (@SADHEXGIRL) April 23, 2019 Reviews of endgame have been rolling out and everyone said they cried.....Im so scared but excited Thanos-The Great Titan (@Actually_Thanos) April 23, 2019 Bring your tissues and don't forget to stop off at the bathroom before you settle in for three hours of emotion.
Avengers: Endgame opens April 24 in Australia, April 25 in the UK and April 26 in the US.
Last year, right before Avengers: Infinity War opened, the cast spoofed the classic Brady Bunch opening credits in a bit for The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon.
That video has since been viewed more than 21 million times.
This year on the show, with Avengers: Endgame about to smash into theaters, the cast parodied Billy Joel's 1989 history-filled hit, We Didn't Start The Fire -- and turned it into a tribute to late Marvel legend Stan Lee, who died in November.
Just like last time, Robert Downey Jr. (Iron Man) leads the band, singing lyrics like, "Tony Stark, Iron Man, Nick Fury has a plan."
Marvel villains also get a turn in the spotlight, and Groot and Goose the cat nail their brief appearances.
But the lump-in-throat moment comes at the end when the special tribute to Lee forms out of nowhere.
Take a watch now, as the fire's about to blaze into theaters.
Avengers: Endgame opens April 24 in Australia, April 25 in the UK and April 26 in the US.
Marvel I'm about to do the craziest thing I've ever done.
Starting Tuesday morning, I'll be subjecting myself to a 59-hour marathon featuring all 22 Marvel movies back to back to back to back to back.
That's right, ALL of them.
That means for two and a half days, I'll essentially be confined to a chair at an AMC theater in San Francisco as I attempt to watch all the movies from start to finish, beginning with Iron Man and wrapping up with Avengers: Endgame on Thursday.
(Don't worry, I'll get up to do stretches, use the bathroom and cry in a dark corner.)
I'll live off of popcorn, movie theater pizza and peanut M&Ms.
But where will I sleep, you ask?
In my chair, of course (I hear it reclines).
And when?
Probably during Iron Man 3.
Now playing: Watch this: Preparing for a 59-hour Marvel movie marathon For some Marvel fans, kicking back in a theater to watch every Marvel Cinematic Universe film may sound like a dream.
But I am not a Marvel fan.
In fact, I've only seen three MCU movies: Spider-Man: Homecoming, Black Panther and Captain Marvel.
I liked them, but I'm one of the few people at CNET headquarters who isn't counting down the days until Avengers: Endgame comes out.
Which will make this insane endeavor all the more interesting.
Will it turn me into a Marvel fanatic?
Will I sleep through half the films?
Will I ever have the courage to step foot in a theater again?
Stay tuned to find out.
The first film starts at 10 a.m. PT Tuesday and I'll be sharing live updates on Twitter and on CNET between movies, in addition to filming my slow deterioration for your enjoyment.
Be sure to follow along to see how I'm faring.
Now playing: Watch this: Avengers: Endgame -- Everything you need to know But first, I have to pack.
If I'm going to spend that long in a theater, I'll need some essentials: a toothbrush and toothpaste, deodorant, extra socks, a few outfits, some battery packs, a light blanket, an eye mask and earplugs for when I want to block everything out and get some sleep (let's hope the sound system isn't great).
I'll probably keep pictures of my loved ones handy to help me in my darkest hours.
Despite concern from my co-workers and family that I've lost my mind (or surely will after this), I'm actually pretty excited.
Maybe it's because I'm naive and don't know what 59 hours in a theater can do to a person.
I may have a complete meltdown when I finally get to the last film and remember it's three hours long.
You may see a side of me I never knew existed, one that reveals how much of a monster I am when I'm sleep deprived and running on nothing but greasy food and my will to survive.
If you'd also like to watch all the movies leading up to the release of Avengers: Endgame, here's how to stream them.
Afterwards, we can bond over our mutual insanity.
Let's do this.
First published April 19.
Update, April 22: Adds video, more details on marathon preparations.
Igloo Cheap Styrofoam coolers get the job done if you just want to keep a couple of drinks cold, but they typically end up in landfills, where they can take hundreds of years to break down, if not longer.
Now, Igloo has an alternative that won't fill you with green guilt during your next trip to the beach.
It's called the Igloo Recool, and Igloo calls it "the world's first eco-sensitive cooler made from 100% biodegradable materials."
At just $10 each, it goes on sale exclusively at REI stores starting May 1, with a wider retail rollout set for later this summer.
First seen in January at the Outdoor Retailer and Snow Show, the Recool is a hard-sided cooler made from a mix of paraffin wax and recycled tree pulp.
With a capacity of 24 quarts, it promises to retain ice for up to 12 hours, making it a good pick for quick day trips.
The body features built in handles as well as a lid with four cup holders on it, and Igloo adds that it can stand up to bumps and drops better than Styrofoam, too.
One other benefit over Styrofoam, per Igloo: "No annoying squeaking noises, ever."
The thing sounds surprisingly rugged for what's basically a bin made of souped-up papier-mch.
Igloo claims it'll hold up to 75 pounds of weight, and hold water without leaking for up to 5 days, all of which I'm just itching to put to the test.
When you're finished with it, you can recycle it, compost it -- or empty it out and let it air dry before reusing it.
Enlarge Image Ry Crist/CNET I'm curious to see how well the Recool holds the cold -- especially compared with the Styrofoam cooler we tested as a cheap control for our roundup of the best coolers on the market.
If it's even in the ballpark of that baseline level of ice retention, then expect to see the Recool take its place as our top pick for cheapskates.
AT&T Sprint and AT&T on Monday reached a settlement -- characterized by both as "amicable" -- over a lawsuit in which Sprint claimed its rival carrier used "numerous deceptive tactics to mislead consumers" with its "5G E" branding.
The 5G E identifier popped up on smartphones earlier this year in certain regions where AT&T is expected to roll out its upcoming 5G network, which is scheduled for later this year and throughout 2020.
AT&T calls this 5G Evolution.
However, 5G E doesn't mean a 4G phone is actually connected to a 5G network, which led Verizon and T-Mobile to slam it as "fake 5G" and Sprint to sue AT&T for false advertising.
News of the settlement was first reported by the site Law360, but the details haven't been released.
AT&T's 5G E commercials have continued despite the legal battle, and 5G E continues to play a role in its marketing strategy.
The company will continue its 5G Evolution marketing, a person familiar with the company's thinking told CNET.
Now playing: Watch this: AT&T tries tricking customers with 5G E logo Originally published April 22 at 2:46 p.m. PT.
Update, 8:12 p.m. PT: Adds that AT&T will continue its current marketing.
Video screenshot by Bonnie Burton/CNET K-pop superstars BTS -- arguably the most popular boy band in the world right now -- is breaking records yet again with its song Boy With Luv.
Boy With Luv, featuring American pop star Halsey, is the first single from the Korean boy band's new album Map of the Soul: Persona.
Debuting at No.
8 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart makes this the highest-charting song by a Korean pop group ever, according to reports on Monday.
It seems as though Boy With Luv is the kind of chart-topping tune that is breaking more than one kind of record.
The music video for Boy With Luv also smashed YouTube's record for the most views in the first 24 hours of release.
The video attracted 74.6 million views in 24 hours, demolishing previous viewership records by music acts Ariana Grande and Blackpink.
Boy With Luv also broke the record for fastest music video to reach 100 million views on YouTube, achieving the mark in less than two days.
When BTS performed its new single Boy With Luv on Saturday Night Live on April 13, the official video of the performance didn't just get record numbers on YouTube, it also marked the first time a South Korean musical act had ever performed on the NBC show.
And last year, BTS also managed to dominate Instagram by having the biggest fandom community.
Marvel Studios Warning: Possible spoilers for Avengers: Endgame ahead.
There are a ton of Avengers: Endgame trailers, television ads, and other sneak peeks out there (check them out here), but they're a bit like Taco Bell menu items: They just remix the same few ingredients, over and over.
Almost every ad features Thor calling for Stormbreaker (not Mjolnir) and nearly giving an unfazed Captain Marvel a close shave.
There's Captain America letting a tear drip down.
There's a shot of a variety of Avengers striding forth in white suits a la Star Wars Stormtroopers.
But what's really going on here?
If you want to go into the three-hour blockbuster unspoiled, stop reading now, because it's time to pick apart the clues Marvel's delivered.
Be warned, though: In the past, Marvel has thrown footage into trailers that didn't appear in the movies, and directors Joe and Anthony Russo have teased about including fake scenes.
Those white suits Multiple trailers show certain Avengers wearing those plasticky looking white suits.
(Let's hope none of them bonk their heads.)
Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige has a pretty dull name for these outfits.
"We call them the team suits," Feige told io9.
"And we early on decided (revealing them) was a big differentiating factor between [Endgame] and the other films."
He notes that the Avengers haven't had matching outfits in the past (cough -- Fantastic Four -- cough), and the look "made this film feel new."
The suits could be used for space travel, but the Guardians of the Galaxy and other Avengers have done a lot of that in the past and not worn similar outfits.
And in a scene where Rocket Raccoon is piloting a ship while Avengers sit behind him, the suits don't appear.
So it seems more likely that these suits are needed for something like time travel or into the Quantum Realm.
Ant-Man is back, after all.
Tony trapped in space Probably no one really thought Iron Man would die in the early minutes of Avengers: Endgame -- Marvel has to wring all they can out of what could be Robert Downey's Jr.'s last appearance in the role.
But in the first trailer, released way back in December, Iron Man is seen adrift in space, recording a final message for fiance Pepper Potts, telling her that his oxygen will run out the next morning.
Now playing: Watch this: Avengers: Endgame trailer revealed But trailers and TV spots released since then feature multiple scenes showing him alive and well and interacting with Captain America, so he gets out of that tight spot just like he has hundreds of other ones.
(Hey, Downey was even one of the few actors trusted with the whole script.)
After this movie though?
No one knows.
Downey's Marvel contract reportedly is up after Endgame, and he may want to hang up the suit.
Hawkeye as Ronin Jeremy Renner's Hawkeye is seen in numerous trailers standing in what appears to be a large Japanese city dressed in a black and gold outfit complete with mask.
In Japanese, "ronin" is a masterless samurai, and Hawkeye certainly fills the bill, as he's off on his own these days.
As our sister site ComicBook.com explains, Ronin was an alternate identity Clint Barton took on in the comics.
Hawkeye wasn't in Avengers: Infinity War, but looks more than ready to make up for it here.
Speaking of Hawkeye, there's a trailer scene showing him teaching a young girl how to shoot arrows.
Could that be Kate Bishop, a comics character Clint trains who eventually takes on the Hawkeye role?
Outriders ride again The Outriders are those many-limbed creatures that fought against our heroes in Wakanda during Avengers: Infinity War.
Don't expect to have seen the last of them: CNET sister site Gamespot reveals that the Outriders are featured prominently in Avengers: Endgame Lego sets, and toy tie-ins can often deliver plot clues.
The Igor suit Tony Stark has a whole wardrobe of Iron Man suits, but one, the Igor, might be featured in Avengers: Endgame.
Another Lego set shows the Igor suit (also known as Mark (MK) 38), which Gamespot describes as "kind of like the Hulkbuster armor."
The Lego set also shows the suits displayed in Tony's Hall of Armor, but Gamespot notes it was destroyed in Iron Man 3.
Will time travel be involved here?
Or is Lego just offering up a blast from the past?
Shuri, nooooooo!
Black Panther's sister, tech genius Shuri, wasn't seen being Snapped away by Thanos in Avengers: Infinity War.
But her face shows up on a roll call of the Snapped that we see in the first trailer.
We're all assuming that means she bit the dust (or turned to dust).
But note that Scott Lang, aka Ant-Man, is also in the roll call of the dead, and he shows up hollering at the front door for Cap to let him in.
So maybe whoever threw that slideshow of the dearly departed together wasn't that careful.
But in Shuri's case, we think she did get Snapped.
Marvel issued a series of posters recently and surviving characters are shown in color, the Snap victims in black-and-white.
Shuri is in black-and-white.
But some good news: Valkyrie (Tessa Thompson) was shown in color -- we were unsure of her fate.
Marvel Studios Stone cold Thanos uses the Infinity Stones again, Black Widow reveals in an Avengers: Endgame ad.
So Captain Marvel proposes the stones could be used to bring back the lost.
Let's hope.
We'll add more clues as we dig them out.
Avengers: Endgame opens April 24 in Australia, April 25 in the UK and April 26 in the US.
Video screenshot by Bonnie Burton/CNET It's no mystery Pokemon characters are downright adorable, but in the upcoming movie Detective Pikachu, they could also help solve a mystery.
In the film, Pikachu (voiced by Ryan Reynolds) tries to figure out what happened to his new partner's father, Harry.
Pikachu's partner Tim Goodman is played by Justice Smith.
The film is a mix of CGI Pokemon creatures and live-action humans.
On Monday, Reynolds shared a new Detective Pikachu movie trailer that shows off Pikachu and various Pokemon characters doing what they do best -- looking cute -- all set to the song "What a Wonderful World."
Reynolds captioned the tear-jerker trailer with "I'm not crying, you're crying."
In addition to Pikachu, we get glimpses of the characters Lickitung, Growlithe the fire pup, and Bulbasaur.
We even get to see Pikachu get a hug from Psyduck on the street.
Detective Pikachu is a spinoff from the Pokemon gaming franchise, which includes the Detective Pikachu game.
Directed by Rob Letterman, Detective Pikachu is scheduled to open in theaters worldwide on May 10.
Five Deeps Expedition The depths of the ocean have an otherworldly, alien quality to them, showcasing remarkable beauty like that seen in upside-down mirror pools and the terrifying visions of transparent Eldritch horrors.
The latest discovery, by a team of scientists and explorers currently charting the ocean's five deepest points, falls somewhere in between.
Exploring the 4.5-mile-deep Java Trench in the Indian Ocean for the first time, Alan Jamieson, chief scientist of the Five Deeps Expedition, ran into this never-before-seen species of sea squirt, casually floating along the ocean floor.
The jelly-like creature sailed along in front of the Five Deeps team's deep-sea submarine, in perfect view of the camera, displaying a blue and white balloon-like floater.
Jamieson describes it as a "stalked Ascidean," a type of sea squirt, albeit one we have never laid eyes on before.
"It is not often we see something that is so extraordinary that it leaves us speechless," Jamieson said in a statement.
Having only glanced the creature of the deep for a brief moment, there's still plenty to learn about it.
Could it be an all-consuming nightmare monster like the Cthulhu sea cucumber that terrorized the deep many moons ago?
Or does it come in peace, bearing gifts, teaching us about the myriad ways that life can thrive in the ocean's darkest, harshest environments?
Whatever the case, my thalassophobia prevents me from finding out.
Luckily, I can just watch the footage of the possibly-murderous death-balloon from the comfort of my computer chair, and so can you: The Five Deeps Expedition is led by explorer Victor Vescovo, who has currently made three solo dives across the world, traveling deeper than 7,000 meters (about 4.35 miles) each time.
The next dive for the team will take them to Challenger Deep in the Mariana Trench -- the deepest point on Earth.
Samsung's beleaguered Galaxy Fold is no longer launching April 26.
After several incidents with screens last week left early-production review units unusable, Samsung announced on Monday that it will delaying Friday's scheduled sale date of its foldable phone, saying it will announce a new released date "in the coming weeks."
"Initial findings from the inspection of reported issues on the display showed that they could be associated with impact on the top and bottom exposed areas of the hinge.
There was also an instance where substances found inside the device affected the display performance," Samsung said in a statement.
"To fully evaluate this feedback and run further internal tests, we have decided to delay the release of the Galaxy Fold."
The company also sent emails to users who pre-ordered the device -- including CNET reviewers -- saying that it will update them "with more specific shipping information in two weeks."
Samsung isn't charging credit cards for the Fold until it ships, and the brand is also giving preorder buyers and out if they change their mind and want to cancel the order before it ships.
Screenshot by CNET News of the phone's delayed release was reported earlier Monday by The Wall Street Journal.
That report follows a tweet from Engadget's Richard Lai on Sunday about the postponement of launch-related events in Hong Kong and Shanghai that were originally scheduled for Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively.
Frequent mobile tipster Ice Universe corroborated on Sunday the postponement of "two events" -- presumably the launch events -- and suggested that shipments of the phone itself could be pushed back.
SamMobile reported Sunday that Samsung was attributing the Shanghai event delay to problems with the venue, citing "someone claiming to be familiar with the matter."
The incidents with the Fold's plastic screen -- which include a screen bulge and flickering display -- have caused a kerfuffle among onlookers, casting doubt on the durability of Samsung's $2,000 foldable phone and on the concept of bendable devices in general.
CNET's Galaxy Fold review unit has remained intact, and we've been in contact with Samsung about the reported screen issues.
Samsung Galaxy Fold launch events in Hong Kong and Shanghai have been postponed.
They were originally scheduled for this Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively.
Richard Lai (@richardlai) April 21, 2019 Samsung's Galaxy Fold woes began Wednesday, two days after it distributed a small number of review devices to reviewers, including CNET.
Reviewers discovered that peeling the plastic film off the Galaxy Fold's 7.3-inch interior screen, which is made of a thin sheet of bendable plastic rather than glass, instantly made the phone unusable.
Another discovered that the left half of the Galaxy Fold strongly flickered, and another noticed a bulge under the screen that caused noticeable distortion in the screen's image, possibly from debris that worked its way under the display.
"While many reviewers shared with us the vast potential they see, some also showed us how the device needs further improvements that could ensure the best possible user experience," Samsung said Monday.
"We will take measures to strengthen the display protection.
We will also enhance the guidance on care and use of the display including the protective layer so that our customers get the most out of their Galaxy Fold."
Now playing: Watch this: Samsung Galaxy Fold problems explained Foldable phones are a brand-new concept rocking the phone world.
The design is supposed to give people double the screen space on a device that's small enough to carry around, unlike today's pocket-busting devices.
But the enormous expense -- the Galaxy Fold starts at $1,980 -- and concerns over the durability of a bendable screen and hinge could threaten the ability of foldable phones to get off the ground.
Huawei has also announced a foldable device, the Mate X, and Motorola is rumored to have a foldable Razr in the works.
The incidents with the Galaxy Fold are also putting Samsung under intense scrutiny as consumers and industry pundits draw parallels with Samsung's double recall of 2016's Galaxy Note 7, after numerous reports that its battery overheated and sometimes caught fire.
Screen issues tied to the Galaxy Fold have "broken" the phones, but have not been reported to cause a fire or any other damage to people and property.
Read: Samsung's Galaxy Fold problems could have been much worse Sarah Tew/CNET Samsung can address at least one recurring issue, where reviewers pulled off a sheet of plastic that wound up being an integral part of the screen.
The company told CNET in a statement last week: "We are taking all necessary measures to ensure that information about protective layer is clearly delivered to our customers.
Materials in the Galaxy Fold box, including the quick-start guide, will include information about the protective layer."
"Samsung.com will have a dedicated Galaxy Fold FAQ for consumers to learn more about caring for the Galaxy Fold, including information about the protective layer.
Retail representatives and customer care are trained with information about the top protective layer."
CNET is keeping an eye on developments with the Galaxy Fold.
While we're continuing to review the early production device, we will not assign a rating until after we test the final production phone we ordered.
See how it's going with our Galaxy Fold so far.
Originally published April 21.
Update, April 22 at 7:52 a.m.: Adds the WSJ report about the launch delay.
Update, April 22 at 10:22 a.m.: Adds confirmation from Samsung.
Update, 12:03 p.m.: Adds Samsung preorder email.
Updated at 5:22 p.m. PT.
Enlarge Image Nick Miotke/Roadshow Tesla's Autonomy Investor Day was a lot of things.
It was a shockingly deep dive into hardware architecture, it was a lesson on training a neural network, and most importantly, it was a look at Tesla's plans to have a massive fleet of "robotaxis" operating in the US.
The idea that we, as a society, could go from having no genuinely Level 5 autonomous cars on the road, let alone available for public use, to having more than a million of them in just a few short years sounds like science fiction, but if Tesla CEO Elon Musk has his way, it won't be.
Musk's roadmap to having his autonomous taxi fleet is surprisingly direct and well underway.
The first big hurdle for any manufacturer attempting something on this scale would be hardware.
Tesla gets around that by having installed its self-driving hardware in cars since 2016 -- it's the same hardware that makes Navigate on Autopilot work so well.
Now playing: Watch this: Musk predicts 1 million Tesla robotaxis on the road next...
The way that a Tesla robotaxi fleet would work, according to Musk, is that Tesla owners could opt into having their car become part of Tesla's taxi fleet when they weren't using it.
The car would then drive off and do ride-hailing stuff while its owner sat at work or home binge-watching TV.
Tesla would charge users for their rides, obviously, and then would take a cut of the car's earnings off the top.
The rest would go to the vehicle owner.
In areas where there weren't enough vehicle owners willing to let their vehicles join the fleet, Tesla would have its own self-managed fleet in place, likely made up of off-lease cars that it's no longer letting customers buy.
All of this would be controlled through the Tesla app, and we get the feeling that, apart from the lack of a driver -- and a driver's penchant for too many air fresheners and awkward conversation -- it would feel like a standard ride-hailing service.
Musk plans to have Tesla's full self-driving capability "feature complete" by the end of 2019, with it being ready for unsupervised use by Q2 of 2020 and -- this is the big one -- 1 million robotaxis on the road testing without passengers by the end of 2020, pending regulatory approval.
So what will the economics of this all look like when Musk flips the robotaxi switch?
According to his presentation, the yearly income from an autonomous taxi would be around $30,000 gross.
Even if you take into account things like wear and tear, and the usage of consumables (which, as we've covered before, isn't much), that's still a tidy little sum per annum.
So, what do you think -- will we soon see Tesla's robotaxis zipping around our city streets?
Or is this a case of Musk mucking up his timeline, and robotaxis are still a long way off?
Let us know in the comments section.
Kimberly White/Getty Images Anyone making less than $66,000 a year can file their taxes for free.
Oftentimes, that's easier said than done.
Intuit, which makes TurboTax, makes it difficult for people to find the free option, according to ProPublica.
Instead, searches on terms such as "irs free file taxes" steer potential tax filers to for-pay versions of its service, according to the publication.
Intuit, along with H&R Block, has lobbied for years to prevent the Internal Revenue Service from building its own free online tax filing system because it would compete with their products, according to ProPublica.
Members of Congress pushed to prevent the IRS from offering free online filing as recently as this month, the publication reported.
The IRS has agreed not to make online tax filing free as long as tax-preparation companies, who have formed an industry group called the Free File Alliance, provide free services to taxpayers making less than $66,000.
Locating Intuit's free service, however, requires a lot of work, according to ProPublica.
ProPublica went to Intuit's TurboTax website and clicked on the "FREE Guaranteed" option but was tagged as a potential paying customer.
The reason: Intuit doesn't offer its free version from its website, ProPublica said.
ProPublica discovered the free version for filers with less than $66,000 in income is called the Freedom Edition.
Once the publication had that information, a Google search brought up the right result.
But the Intuit site still tried to channel ProPublica back to a for-pay version, it said.
Clicking on a link titled "Start for Free" on the page led to a for-pay version of TurboTax, while clicking on "See If You Qualify" led to the actual free filing option.
TurboTax also offers a product called Free Edition, a no-cost version for users with simple filings.
Eligibility for Free Edition isn't based on income, but rather on filing circumstance, such as W2, standard deduction and child tax credits.
TurboTax spokesman Rick Heineman said pricing for TurboTax products is listed on the company's Products & Pricing page.
"This information is made clear to customers before they begin to file," he wrote.
TurboTax Free File Program, which is on a page whose URL reads https://turbotax.intuit.com/taxfreedom/, is the Intuit product used as part of the income-based IRS Free File.
Heineman said the TurboTax Free File Program "contains no cross-marketing or selling of ancillary products or services."
Helen Sloan/HBO Another episode of Game of Thrones is behind us, and you know what that means: It's time to lock the front door and heat up some of Mama's eatin' snacks.
We've got an episode of event television to watch!
Season 8, episode 2, titled A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms, aired on Sunday, and while we didn't get any action on the battlefield, the action was on for young and old in Winterfell.
First things first.
If you haven't seen this week's episode, here's everything you need to know on how to stream it.
If you didn't watch last week's episode or you plain can't remember it (I know, it's been a tough week), you may want to check out everything that happened in the season 8 premiere (TL;DR it was Westeros reunion soup and Bran was a super creeper).
Also, head here if you want to watch the trailer for next week's episode.
Now, sound the spoiler horn and get comfortable, because just like Daenerys' pervy pet dragon, we've got some watching to do!
Now playing: Watch this: Game of Thrones Season 8: All your questions answered...
Episode 2 recap: Quivering in antici... pation The season 8 premiere brought everyone back to Winterfell, but episode 2 set the stakes.
The battle with the White Walkers is close, but still hasn't begun.
The day is about to dawn, but we're still in blackest night.
And what's the perfect way to sum up that anticipation?
Sexual.
Tension.
The episode opened where the premiere left off: Jaime is in Winterfell and everyone kinda remembers him as a jerk.
He's rocked up in Winterfell's lunch room to appear before Daenerys and, to be honest, she's kinda TO'd because Jaime's sister promised an army that never came.
(Dany will also later chastise Tyrion for not anticipating Cersei's betrayal and being a clueless Hand.)
But back in the lunch room, Jaime reminds us he's not exactly stoked with Cersei right now and that despite those family ties, he'd rather fight for the living than stay shacked up in Kings Landing with a woman who's getting sketchier by the minute.
"This goes beyond loyalty," he says.
"This is about survival."
Brienne vouches for Jaime, Sansa vouches for Brienne, and because Sansa is wearing a pretty mean leather corset right now, everyone decides the older Stark sis is legit.
OK Jaime, you can sit with us.
But not before we establish that Brienne might have some complicated feelings toward you.
Sexual tension: 1 out of 10.
Hot stuff, coming through HBO Oooh here we go!
We're down in the forge and Gendry is smithing the life out of that Dragonglass.
Winterfell needs weapons, and thankfully Gendry's got two guns ready for the job.
After her reunion with Gendry last week, Arya is back and she's thirsty... for knowledge.
She wants to know how the White Walkers fight and what they'll need to do to succeed in battle.
In another classic "oh, I've done some growing up of my own" move, Arya throws Dragonglass knives at a post and Gendry is here for it.
But we didn't come back to Winterfell for sexy times and there's other tension to be had here.
So, having just arrived in the North, Jaime is off to do the rounds.
He reunites with Bran in the godswood to talk about that nasty defenestration business from season 1.
Bran's not too fussed because in case you hadn't heard, he got into some pretty heavy raven stuff at tree college, so y'know, he can see through time now.
Enlarge Image Helen Sloan/HBO Speaking of time, is it that late?
Sorry Bran, Jaime has to be somewhere else.
Off to chat with Tyrion on the battlements in fact (which have now been kitted out with Dragonglass spikes).
They have a bit of "sisters, ammiright?"
banter before Jaime notices Brienne on the field below.
He jogs down to pledge to fight with her in battle, but the reunion he hoped for is a little lost in Brienne's confused cry of "We have never had a conversation last this long without you insulting me.
Not once!"
Jaime, you're going to have to do better than that to woo this one.
Sexual tension: 4 out of 10.
Setting up for battle Despite all these long brooding chats, the White Walkers are still taking their sweet-ass time to get to Winterfell.
So Dany decides to pop in to mend bridges with Sansa.
Sansa is frankly concerned Jon is a little dragon-crazy and isn't going to make sound decisions with Daenerys around.
Dany reiterates she's all about supporting Jon's family (it's easy when it's your family too!)
but it's clear her love for Jon clearly won't get in the way of her thirst for the throne.
Helen Sloan/HBO Meanwhile, around Winterfell we've still got a lot of battle prep going on.
Ser Davos is feeding Northerners onion soup and Gilly is gathering the women and children to wait out the war in the crypt.
Odds are that one of these kindnesses will be paid off with a brutal death that fans will cry heartily over.
In the war room, it's time to devise a plan to defeat the dead.
Bran reveals that while he was in tree college he got a sweet tattoo and turns out it attracts the Night King.
So they decide to use Bran as bait to lure the dead, figuring that it'll keep him and his weird crow chat out of their faces for a bit either way.
Sexual tension: 5 onions out of 10.
The night is dark and full of sexy times The Night King has apparently only just gotten into his Uber and is still, like, at least a few hours away.
So Winterfell has time to kill.
It's time for more D&Ms than a grade school slumber party!
The popular kids are sitting fireside trading stories and watching Tormund talk about the time he was breastfed by a giantess for three months (weird flex but OK).
Dude can "suckle at her teat" (man that phrase bums me out) but he apparently can't drink from a horn.
If that's Tormund's idea of peacocking, then Jaime decides to go one better, and knights Brienne by the fire.
Arise, Ser Brienne... sweet mercy, IS THIS THE FIRST TIME WE'VE SEEN BRIENNE SMILE?!
She is a beautiful gem and no one kill her in this battle or so help me!
After a brief chat with the Hound, Arya remembers this could be her last night on Westeros.
She meets up with Gendry and, after getting a thorough review of his sexual history (safe sex, kids!)
she reveals she'd like to forge his steel.
Arya gets nude, but thankfully we don't see too much.
That would be like seeing your kid sister getting drunk at a college party.
Speaking of sword exchanges, Sam meets up with Jorah and offers him the Tarly family sword.
It's made of Valyrian steel so it's going to be handy in a fight (unlike Sam, bless his heart).
But oh no, what's this?
Sam just bade farewell with the line "I'll see you when it's through"?
Thanks a lot.
Now one of you has to die.
Sexual tension: 9 out of 10, definitely shipping Gendya.
One more thing Jon Snow has been effectively avoiding Daenerys for the whole episode, but it's finally time to hash it out.
Dany happens upon him in the crypt and Jon Snow gives us what is one of the most awkward "I'm about to break up with you" smiles ever.
What's this?
Just standing here in front of Lyanna Starks tomb?
Oh, the optics of this are fine, thinks Dany.
Not so.
While Daenerys says her brother Rhaegar Targaryen raped Lyanna, Jon insists they were married and in love.
"The last thing as she bled to death on her birthing bed was give the boy to her brother, Ned Stark, to raise as his bastard," he says, in the most convoluted reworking of we-should-see-other-people that was ever uttered.
"My name, my real name, is Aegon Targaryen."
Daenerys is shocked, but this isn't her first rodeo.
She claps back.
"A secret no one in the world knew except your brother and your best friend, does that seem strange to you?"
she says.
Very fair.
"If this is true, it would make you the last male heir of house Targaryen.
You'd have a claim to the iron throne."
Also true.
There's a lot happening here -- from what's said ("We're related!")
to what's unsaid ("Who gets the throne when this is over?")
-- but there's no time now.
The battle horn has sounded, and after a night full of passion and truth, it's time to crush some wight skulls.
Sexual tension: No time for that now!
But 10 out of 10, it's on.
The verdict If you came for battles, you will have been disappointed.
But this week's episode was all about gearing us up for the next four.
We're getting the human emotions, the stakes, the tension -- essentially all the reasons the folks of Westeros are fighting.
From there, we can go into full dead-slaying battle action.
But be warned, that means we're going to see a lot of good people die.
I don't think we'll ever be ready for that.
Originally published 8:04 p.m. PT.
Marvel Studios Spotting comic book legend Stan Lee in Marvel movies, TV series and video games has always been fun for fans.
Since Lee's death in 2018, he's had posthumous cameos in Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse and Captain Marvel.
Avengers: Endgame director Joe Russo recently revealed Lee's cameo in Avengers: Endgame will be his last MCU appearance.
To commemorate all of Lee's past cameos -- which have him playing everything from a bus driver to a librarian -- Marvel Studios is making a behind-the-scenes video of Lee's cameos.
"We've never done this before, a behind-the-scenes of every cameo," Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige told Entertainment Weekly.
"All the B-roll that was shot and his stand-ups there.
His passing was very emotional for all of us, but it suddenly all came back to me just when I watched it."
The video will include Lee's cameo in 2008's Iron Man, where he is mistaken as Playboy magazine icon Hugh Hefner by Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) at a red carpet event.
Now playing: Watch this: Every Stan Lee Marvel movie cameo There will also be a deleted cameo during The Avengers that shows Captain America (Chris Evans) taking flak from Lee.
The video will most likely be released as bonus material on the digital and Blu-ray release of Avengers: Endgame.
Avengers: Endgame is scheduled to open in theaters worldwide on April 26.
CIA via Twitter The CIA's getting ready to transmit some photos -- on social media.
The usually secretive intelligence agency plans to launch an Instagram page in the near future, CIA Director Gina Haspel said during a national security forum Thursday at Auburn University.
Haspel declassified the agency's plans while discussing its social media-savvy recruits and the challenge of trying to be transparent about its activities.
"Just to talk a moment about transparency, of course CIA does have a Twitter account," Haspel said.
"Our office of public affairs is getting ready to launch our Instagram account."
Haspel acknowledged that some at the agency's Langley, Virginia, headquarters aren't eager to spill too many details about what it does, as noted by Mashable, which previously reported on the development.
"We try and be as open as we can, and to protect the secrets that we must protect," Haspel said.
As Haspel noted, the CIA already has an official account on Twitter, with more than 2.5 million followers, but the account appears to be mostly used to recruit new agents and offer history on the agency and some of its key figures over the years.
There's no word on when the account will begin sharing snaps -- or whether the pics come from those tiny spy cameras you see in the movies.
A CIA representative declined to comment further beyond Haspel's remarks.
Haspel's speech:
Enlarge Image Paul Harris/Getty Images It should come as a surprise to no one that America's road and highway infrastructure is in a pretty sorry state.
It's something that we notice every day on our morning commutes and quietly swear at from behind the steering wheel, but it's a more serious issue than just messed-up wheels and potholes.
Thankfully, the US government is getting ready to throw a little bit of money at the problem in the form of federal Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) Transportation Discretionary grants.
How much money?
Around $900 million.
These grants can be applied for and used by municipalities of all sizes, but Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao made it clear in a recent statement that a significant portion of the funding would go specifically toward improving infrastructure in rural areas.
"These BUILD Transportation grants will provide needed infrastructure investment to better connect rural and urban communities around our nation," Secretary Elaine Chao said in a statement today.
Municipalities that apply for BUILD grants have to have very specific plans for the money for which they are asking.
The BUILD grants have to be used to improve infrastructure condition, address public health and safety, stimulate economic growth or promote energy independence.
While that $900 million figure sounds like a ton of cash, it's barely a drop in the bucket for a problem that has been more or less ignored for decades.
To truly bring America's road infrastructure back into a reasonable and safe condition would take many times that amount.
Andrew Hoyle/CNET The Galaxy Fold phone is grabbing all the attention because Samsung is delaying the launch of its foldable phone to figure out why many review units are failing.
But Nubia, an associate company of Chinese phone-maker ZTE, announced today that it plans to launch the Nubia Alpha, a different kind of foldable phone, later this week.
The Nubia Alpha is a 4-inch smartphone with a flexible OLED display that wraps around a your wrist like a cuff.
It will launch on April 25 for $449 or 449 with a Bluetooth-only model in the US and Europe.
However, an eSIM version will be available in China.
If you are one of the first 50 buyers, you'll receive a free pair of Bluetooth Nubia Buds.
For more information, check out Nubia's website.
Video screenshot by Amanda Kooser/CNET Harry Potter fans are probably shouting "Revelio!"
at shoemaker Vans right about now.
The company dropped a big fat tease about a new Harry Potter footwear and clothing collection, but it's keeping the details as wrapped up as the Chamber of Secrets.
Vans shared an eye-straining video on Twitter saying, "Something magical coming soon."
The Vans website has a placeholder page listing the four Hogwarts houses of Gryffindor, Ravenclaw, Slytherin and Hufflepuff, so we can probably expect some sneakers and gear done up in themed color schemes.
"Vans and Harry Potter collaborated to conjure up a magical collection of footwear, apparel, and accessories for witches, wizards, and muggles alike," the company said.
Fans of J.K. Rowling's fantastical series and Vans' skate-inspired apparel are having a bit of a freak out on Twitter while pledging all their money towards the collaboration.
OMG VANS IS DOING A HARRY POTTER COLLECTION!!!!
THERE GOES MY MONEY.... andy (@cinematopeya) April 22, 2019 It's not like there's any shortage of Harry Potter merch, but coupling the popularity of Vans with The Boy Who Lived looks like it will send the fandom into spasms of joy.
Vans has yet to reveal a release date for the collection, but expect that soon you will be able to telegraph your Hogwarts house allegiance with your feet.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk revealed a number of details regarding the company's new Full Self Driving tech at today's Autonomy Investor Day seminar.
The Silicon Valley company's plan to detail its driverless tech comes amid growing questions about global demand for Tesla's electric vehicles, the ongoing health of its stock, and the stability of the company's leadership -- Musk included.
In other words, this promised to be a hugely important event in the history of the high-profile automaker -- and based on some of the claims that Musk made, that looks to be the case.
Back on April 3, Tesla first announced plans to host Autonomy Investor Day, which it originally scheduled for Friday, April 19.
It subsequently moved the date to Monday, April 22, "based on investor feedback."
According to Tesla's initial press announcement, the company "is making significant progress in the development of its autonomous driving software and hardware, including our FSD computer, which is currently in production and which will enable Full Self-Driving via future over-the-air software updates."
On April 15, Musk upped the ante by tweeting, "Buying a car in 2019 that can't upgrade to Full Self-Driving is like buying a horse instead of a car in 1919."
Tesla also took attending investors on test drives to experience its latest iteration of Autopilot, including demonstrating features and functions that remain the subject of ongoing development.
Xinhua News Agency/Getty Tesla -- and Elon Musk in particular -- have been under fire for promising full autonomous-drive technology at a time when other automakers and suppliers seem to be backing away from ambitious timetables, lengthening their production horizons to account for growing technological challenges.
For its part, Tesla's self-named Full Self-Driving hardware doesn't seem to include core technologies that virtually every other company racing towards driverless cars has deemed necessary for safe, reliable operation.
Musk stated during the presentation that he believes Tesla's Full Self-Driving system will be feature complete by the end of 2019.
He then went on to state that he anticipates that the system will be significantly robust to permit users to not pay attention while using it by Q2 of 2020.
Finally, Musk said that he believes Tesla will be in-process on receiving regulatory approval from the US government by the end of 2020.
Tesla's Full Self-Driving suite will rely on a network of cameras, as well as forward-facing radar and ultrasonic sensors to keep tabs on a vehicle's immediate surroundings.
Every other major player in this growing space, including automakers like Audi and tech companies like Mobileye and Waymo are developing prototypes that employ lidar sensors (laser radar), as well as hyper-detailed three-dimensional mapping.
Tesla has not shown such technologies, and Musk has been dismissive of lidar technology in the past.
Instead, Tesla has unveiled a major step forward in the form of a new AI chipset developed in-house to power its FSD tech.
Leaving out the sensors that Tesla plans to use to facilitate self-driving, its hardware solution seems incredibly robust.
The Full Self-Driving (FSD) computer package utilizes redundant, custom-designed chips to deal with the massive amounts of information provided by the rest of the hardware package.
It is designed from the ground up by Tesla to do this while using a minimal amount of power (under 100 watts in this case) to reduce the system's impact on overall vehicle range.
The current generation of FSD hardware has been finished for approximately two years, and the next generation of hardware -- according to Musk -- is due out in another two years.
Musk predicts that the next iteration of FSD hardware will be approximately three times as powerful as the current one.
Currently, all new Teslas being built come standard with this FSD computer hardware installed, and many older vehicles can have it retrofitted with minimal effort.
Neural network and software Tesla's Navigate On Autopilot hardware that's currently available on its vehicles is already capable of fully automatic lane changes and finding its way onto and off of freeway interchanges.
The system has not been without its critics, and there have been a number of high-profile accidents that some have attributed to blind spots in the technology's makeup.
Despite those incidents, there's no denying that Autopilot offers more functionality in more environments than competing systems currently available from other automakers (many of which have been more conservative in deploying new features for safety reasons).
One of the main driving factors that Tesla is relying on to move its self-driving tech forward is its neural network.
The Tesla neural network pulls images and video from Tesla vehicles in the real world and through a combination of human annotation and predictive behavior, it learns how to read the road efficiently and accurately.
It also uses the vehicle's radar sensors to help it determine object depth and distance without needing to use a stereoscopic camera setup.
Tesla claims that it has upward of 425,000 cars on the road with Hardware 2.0 that are uploading data for training to be used by the neural network.
Andrej Karpathy, Tesla's head of AI also expounded on Musk's statements that lidar is a fool's errand and a crutch.
He explained that the Tesla system uses computer vision because the world's roads are built on vision, and using a neural network to read images offers dramatically more information for a given object than can lidar.
Elon Musk portended during the presentation that, "Anyone relying on lidar is doomed."
While the Autonomy Investor Day event was centered on self-driving tech, we also got plenty of other nuggets from Musk and other Tesla officials regarding future products like the Model Y and the Semi.
One particularly interesting tidbit was Musk's mention of a planned battery pack redesign that would allow it to last for around a million miles (current packs are expected to go between 300,000 and 500,000 miles before needing replacement).
We also got an earful about Tesla's planned robotaxi network.
Aside from the technological requirements, we learned that Tesla already has designs on its off-lease vehicles.
If you lease a Model 3, you won't have the chance to buy it at the end of your contract; Tesla wants it back.
This will help the company build up its standing fleet for a future robotaxi service in areas that don't have enough owners wiling to share their vehicles.
Musk plans on having over a million robotaxis operating on the road as of 2020, though with nobody in them.
Whether you're a Tesla bull or bear, believer or cynic, Autonomy Investor Day was packed with interesting information, and we look forward to more presentations like this from the brand in the future.
Originally published April 22, 6:39 a.m. PT.
Update, 2:18 p.m. PT: Added further information regarding Tesla Full Self-Driving.
Correction, 3:36 p.m. PT: A previous version of this story said that Elon Musk planned to have over 1 million robotaxis operating by the end of next year.
That was an incomplete quote, and has been adjusted to reflect Musk's actual statements.
There's one day of the year I particularly miss Barcelona, my home.
It's not Christmas or New Year's Day.
Definitely not Easter (even if I'm very particular to a certain kind of sweet available only around that time).
Not my birthday.
Not the annual festival to commemorate the city: La Merc.
Although that one comes in a close second.
Nothing beats free concerts on the streets, fireworks and human towers, right?
Well, almost nothing.
I moved to the States almost 13 years ago and I'm past the homesickness you tend to experience when you start living in a new or unknown place.
But every year on April 23, World Book Day, it still aches a bit not to be on the streets of my hometown.
It's a day that promotes reading and publishing that's been celebrated worldwide since 1995 but goes back to the late 1920s in Catalonia.
We celebrate it with books and roses.
Xavi Torrent/Getty Images The thing is, there's a lot to celebrate on that date.
On the one hand, it's Saint George's day -- la diada de Sant Jordi.
He's the patron saint of Catalonia.
According to the legend, Sant Jordi was a knight who saved your typical princess in distress from a dangerous and very hungry dragon.
The knight killed the dragon and from its blood grew a bush of bright red roses.
Sant Jordi gave the most beautiful of the flowers to the princess.
And Catalans have been doing the same with their loved ones ever since.
The giving-red-roses part, that is.
Not the dragon-slaying bit.
After so many years far from home, I've developed a system to celebrate the day here.
So Sant Jordi's day is like Catalan lovers' day (el dia dels enamorats).
Valentine's Day but much better, in my completely unbiased opinion.
Especially because we celebrate all kinds of love, not only for the person you are in love with but also for friends and family members.
Although traditionally it was the women who received the roses, the whole celebration is now in tune with contemporary culture and it's encouraged to give flowers to everyone, regardless of gender.
Even if you aren't much into flowers, there are more ways to say "I love you," "I like you" or "I love myself" that day.
Besides the rose vendors, the streets are full of bookstalls.
You're encouraged to buy a book or two for your loved one(s).
And you can even get the newest releases signed since many authors can be found hanging around the bookstore stands among the main streets Rambla Catalunya, La Rambla and Passeig de Grcia.
Enlarge Image Angela Lang/CNET The books were added to the equation in the late 1920s.
The brilliant idea to have a day dedicated to literature, a book party (festa del llibre), traces to Valencian writer and editor Vicent Clavel.
April 23 is also the anniversary of the deaths of Miguel de Cervantes and William Shakespeare, which makes the whole thing very fitting.
And in 1995 UNESCO joined the party, declaring April 23 World Book and Copyright Day.
(I know, that doesn't sound quite so appealing.)
After so many years far from home, I've developed a system to celebrate the day here.
It's not the same, but it's good enough.
My husband normally gets me a dozen red roses.
In Barcelona, per tradition, I would have gotten one from him and one from my dad.
But I'm glad we're not sticking strictly to the norms.
And that day we go to a bookstore and buy books for one another -- and for ourselves.
Last year he got me Gillian Flynn's Sharp Objects and I got him Neil deGrasse Tyson's Death by Black Hole.
The previous year he chose nonfiction for me (Marie Kondo's Spark Joy and Hope Jahren's Lab Girl), while I chose fiction for him (Kazuo Ishiguro's Never Let Me Go).
I tend to go to a different bookstore another day during Sant Jordi's week and treat myself to even more reading material.
(I gave myself Lucia Berlin's A Manual For Cleaning Women and Elmore Leonard's Out of Sight these past years.)
I never feel guilty about buying books, even when I know I might not read all of them.
My Goodreads' Reading Challenge has a goal of 24 books this year.
I always have a pile of books on my nightstand patiently waiting for me.
Technically you can celebrate Sant Jordi every day by supporting your local bookstore, but it feels good to have a special party and make the most of that day or that week.
In the end, the idea is to spend it with people you like, and with literature.
The roses are completely optional but highly encouraged.
Now you know.
This Tuesday, if you see someone on the street carrying a single red rose with a long stem, chances are they're a Catalan expat trying to make someone special happy.
Xavi Torrent/Getty Images Originally published 5 a.m. PT.
Angela Lang/CNET While the Samsung Galaxy Fold is dominating the news for all its wonder and problems, one of the most impressive smartphones recently, the Huawei P30 Pro, is making waves for how amazing its four-rear cameras are.
In his review of the P30 Pro for CNET, Andrew Hoyle writes, "This phone captures zoom and low-light photos unlike anything I've ever seen from a phone."
A new video teardown on the YouTube channel JerryRigEverything shows a teardown of the phone and its one-of-a-kind camera system.
The zoom camera is particularly interesting because it has 5x optical zoom and 50x digital zoom.
As opposed to having the lens stick out of the back of the phone, Huawei built it into the phone sideways -- with a periscope-style mirror to reflect light into the sensor.
Fast-forward to 6 minutes in to see the relevant section of the video.
In the video, Zack Nelson not only dissects the periscope camera module to reveal the lens and magnifier, but he shows how the in-screen fingerprint readers works.
When the unit it is removed from the phone, there's a small clear circle in the display where your finger would normally go.
James Martin/CNET Two Google employees who helped organize a worldwide walkout at the company in November say they've faced retaliation for their actions, according to a Monday report.
Meredith Whittaker, the head of Google's Open Research, and Claire Stapleton, a marketing manager at YouTube, say they were told their roles would change several months after the walkout, according to Wired.
More than 20,000 full-time workers and contractors walked off their jobs to protest the search giant's handling of sexual harassment claims.
After Google shut down its AI ethics council in early April, Whittaker was told her position would be "changed dramatically," she wrote in a message sent to several internal Google mailing lists, according to Wired.
If she wanted to say at the company, Whittaker would have to give up her work on AI ethics, as well as her job at the AI Now Institute at New York University, a research center she cofounded, the magazine said.
Two months after the walkout, Stapleton was told she was being demoted from her role and would lose half of her reports, she reportedly wrote in the email.
She brought the issue up with human resources and faced more retaliation, according to Wired.
"My manager started ignoring me, my work was given to other people, and I was told to go on medical leave, even though I'm not sick," she reportedly wrote.
Stapleton hired a lawyer.
After a company investigation, she was reportedly able to keep her position.
"While my work has been restored, the environment remains hostile and I consider quitting nearly every day," she wrote, according to Wired.
Whittaker and Stapleton didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Wired reported that the pair would hold a "town hall" meeting on Friday, at which other employees will be able to discuss any retaliation they may have faced.
A Google spokeswoman denied any retaliation, saying the moves were part of routine staffing changes.
"Employees and teams are regularly and commonly given new assignments, or reorganized, to keep pace with evolving business needs," she said in an email.
"There has been no retaliation here."
View press/Getty Images For the foreseeable future, you won't be able to use Apple Pay at JCPenney's physical stores or on its iOS app.
"JCPenney made the decision to remove Apple Pay for our stores, we apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused.
We will definitely forward your feedback regarding this for review," the company tweeted on Saturday.
The tweet was in response to an unhappy customer whose wife was unable to access Apple Pay at one of the store's locations.
JCPenney made the decision to remove Apple Pay for our stores, we apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused.
We will definitely forward your feedback regarding this for review.
Ask JCPenney (@askjcp) April 20, 2019 JCPenney said the change was the results of a requirement that retailers start supporting new contactless payment technology by April 13.
"Given the resources and lead time associated with meeting the new mandate, JCPenney chose to suspend all contactless payment options until a later date.
Customers still have the ability to complete their transactions manually by inserting or swiping their physical credit cards at our point-of-sale terminals in stores, an option employed by the vast majority of JCPenney shoppers," a JCPenney spokesperson said in an email.
Other customers noted that retail rivals like Kohls and Target accept Apple Pay.
JCPenney began accepting Apple Pay nationwide in 2017 after testing it in 2015.
Originally published April 22 at 7:05 a.m. PT.
Update, at 12:35 p.m. PT: Added comment from JCPenney.
Now playing: Watch this: The Apple Card is Apple's new no-late fee credit card
Michel Euler/Getty Images French judicial police believe an electrical short-circuit is most likely what caused the devastating fire that blazed through Paris' historic Notre Dame Cathedral on Monday.
According to the anonymous official who spoke with the Associated Press on Thursday, investigators still aren't allowed inside the cathedral for safety reasons.
Authorities are still investigating the fire as an accident but are taking the cathedral's outdated fire-prevention safeguards into consideration, The New York Times reported.
Elements like firewalls and sprinkler systems were reportedly missing from Notre Dame's attic, where the fire burned, by choice.
Electrical wiring reportedly wasn't allowed in the cathedral's attic to preserve its original design and to protect the lead ceiling's timber support beams.
Valrie Pcresse, the president of the le-de-France region in which Paris lies, confirmed Tuesday that the fire was an accident, though officials haven't elaborated on the exact cause.
Paris police said it may be linked to the $6.8 million renovation efforts underway.
In the aftermath of the fire, French President Emmanuel Macron vowed to rebuild the landmark.
Experts now plan to fortify what's left of the 850-year-old structure, and donations have already started coming in from French philanthropists and charities to fund the extensive rebuilding costs.
It took nine hours and more than 400 firefighters to bring the blaze under control and eventually put it out altogether in the early hours of Tuesday.
No deaths were reported, but one firefighter was reportedly seriously injured.
Though fire crews initially said they "may not be able to save Notre Dame," they were able to preserve the main structure including the outer walls and the two bell towers.
Photos from inside the cathedral taken Tuesday morning showed debris still smoldering around the altar.
On Tuesday, a tweet surfaced showing that the rooster from the iconic spire survived the fire.
Additionally, three beehives -- home to about 180,000 bees -- located beneath the rose window also survived the fire.
Notre Dame's beekeeper, Nicolas Geant, said he received a call from the cathedral's spokesperson who said the bees were flying in and out of their hives.
Geant posted photos of bees buzzing around one of the gargoyles last week.
People in France and around the world were in mourning over the damage, including the loss of the building's spire and part of the roof.
Artifacts and artwork in the cathedral were saved by Parisian fire services and the city's deputy mayor for tourism and sports, Jean-Francois Martins, and his team.
They were able to salvage the Crown of Thorns, the Blessed Sacrament and other items.
The rescued works were transported to the Louvre Museum for safekeeping.
"We made a human chain, with our friends from the church ... to get, as quick as possible, to get all the relics," Martins told CBS News.
"Everything is safe and undamaged, and in our really bad day, we had one good news."
#intervention Retour en images sur le feu #NotreDame de Paris qui a mobilis prs de 400 pompiers.
pic.twitter.com/O9ELwENcoY Pompiers de Paris (@PompiersParis) April 16, 2019 'Everything is burning' The fire started shortly after the cathedral closed around 6:45 p.m. local time and grew quickly in windy conditions.
The narrow streets, the heat of the flames and the Parisian landmark's positioning along the River Seine made it difficult for firefighters to get closer.
At around 7:53 p.m., the spire fell amid the flames.
Less than 15 minutes later, part of the roof collapsed, Reuters reported.
The island where the cathedral is located, Paris' Ile de la Cit, was evacuated just before 8:30 p.m. "Everything is burning; nothing will remain from the frame," Notre Dame spokesperson Andre Finot told CBS News shortly after the blaze began.
Though President Donald Trump tweeted that "perhaps flying water tankers could be used to put it out," the civil defense agency of the French government responded that firefighters are using all means to combat the blaze, "except for water-bombing aircrafts which, if used, could lead to the collapse of the entire structure of the cathedral."
Hundreds of firemen of the Paris Fire Brigade are doing everything they can to bring the terrible #NotreDame fire under control.
All means are being used, except for water-bombing aircrafts which, if used, could lead to the collapse of the entire structure of the cathedral.
Scurit Civile Fr (@SecCivileFrance) April 15, 2019 A city united Images of the fire quickly swept the globe on social media.
And in Paris, France 24 reported, people gathered and to sing Ave Maria and Catholic hymns.
"Our Lady of Paris in flames.
Emotion of a whole nation.
Thought for all Catholics and for all French.
Like all our countrymen, I'm sad tonight to see this part of us burn," Macron tweeted.
France 24 reported that Macron is treating the fire as a national emergency.
In a tweet, Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo said firefighters were working to control the flames from the "terrible" fire and she urged residents and visitors to respect the security perimeter.
Un terrible incendie est en cours la cathdrale Notre-Dame de Paris.
Les @PompiersParis sont en train de tenter de matriser les flammes.
Nous sommes mobiliss sur place en lien troit avec le @dioceseParis.
J'invite chacune et chacun respecter le primtre de scurit.
pic.twitter.com/9X0tGtlgba Anne Hidalgo (@Anne_Hidalgo) April 15, 2019 Much like after the terrorist attacks on Paris in 2015, politicians, religious leaders and ordinary citizens from around also tweeted statements of support.
"The Holy See has seen with shock and sadness the news of the terrible fire that has devastated the Cathedral of #NotreDame, symbol of Christianity in France and in the world."
@AGisotti pic.twitter.com/cRjUxkxRwa Vatican News (@VaticanNews) April 15, 2019 Notre Dame is one of the worlds great treasures, and were thinking of the people of France in your time of grief.
Its in our nature to mourn when we see history lost but its also in our nature to rebuild for tomorrow, as strong as we can.
pic.twitter.com/SpMEvv1BzB Barack Obama (@BarackObama) April 15, 2019 Social media also delved into one of its favorite pastimes conspiracy theories after a US politician tweeted out unverified information after a friend in Europe told him the fire had been set intentionally.
Christopher Hale, who ran for Congress in Tennessee and writes opinion columns for Time magazine, quickly specified that his friend's information hadn't been confirmed and deleted his original tweet, according to The Daily Beast.
But that didn't stop far-right conspiracy theorists from using Hale's tweet as proof that terrorists had started the fire.
"In retrospect, I absolutely never should have tweeted it in the first place," Hale told the publication on Tuesday.
"I don't think I had the foresight about how much the worst parts of the internet will grasp for straws in their conspiracy theories."
French authorities haven't suggested arson as a cause for the blaze.
On Thursday, firefighters from the Paris Fire Brigade attended a reception in their honor at Macron's residence, the lyse Palace.
According to The New York Times, there's an additional ceremony scheduled for later in the day.
The race to save history While the Gothic cathedral, which dates from the 12th century, is a masterpiece itself with its flying buttresses, breathtaking stained glass windows and carved gargoyles, inside its walls are priceless Catholic relics and artifacts, paintings, statues and other precious artwork.
Fortunately, some of the the treasures were safely retrieved as the fire unfolded, including a centuries-old crown of thorns made from reeds and gold.
And just days ago, copper statues representing the 12 apostles and four evangelists were removed for cleaning as part of the restoration project.
The cathedral's facade has been the subject of countless paintings and its soaring form also inspired Victor Hugo's famous novel, Notre-Dame de Paris or The Hunchback of Notre Dame.
Aside from being one of the most important religious sights in France, it's also a symbol of Paris and one of the city's most visited monuments.
How to see Notre Dame Cathedral It's too soon to say when restoration on the cathedral will begin.
For now, if you want to visit or relive a trip there, check out these virtual tours both inside the majestic halls and from a birds-eye view of the timeless architecture.
Originally published April 15, 1:09 p.m. PT.
Updates, 3:50 p.m., 11:52 p.m. and 4:09 p.m.: More details added; April 16 at 6:32 a.m., 10:39 a.m. and 3:45 p.m.: More details added; April 17 at 11:28 a.m. and 12:27 p.m.: More details added; April 18 at 12:52 p.m. and 1:17 p.m.: More details added; April 22 at 12:21 p.m.: More details added.
Marvel Thanos may have snapped half the population to dust in Avengers: Infinity War, but that doesn't mean the fight is over.
Here's all the footage, and all the posters, we've seen so far for Avengers: Endgame, which opens in theaters this week.
Live red carpet event, April 22, 2019 TODAY!
Join us at 4:30pm PT/7:30pm ET for the red carpet World Premiere of Marvel Studios' #AvengersEndgame LIVE from Los Angeles.
Tune in for interviews with the cast and much more: https://t.co/CIlcUIVtW8 pic.twitter.com/158Fsosc4p Marvel Entertainment (@Marvel) April 22, 2019 Fans can tune in at 4:30 p.m. PT/7:30 p.m.
ET for the red carpet world premiere of Avengers: Endgame live from Los Angeles.
Cast and crew will be on hand for interviews and more here.
'Time' TV teaser trailer, April 22, 2019 More glimpses of new footage of Captain America, and Iron Man and the rest of the Avengers getting angry during battle somewhere that looks like a destroyed city's ruins.
Plus Rocket Raccoon says, "Alright Avengers, time to live up to your name."
'Powerful' TV teaser trailer, April 21, 2019 This teaser trailer shows a lot of the same footage we've seen in previous trailers, but there's a quick clip of Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow saying the Avengers are her family.
There's also a clip of Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) telling Steve Rogers/Captain America (Chris Evans) he missed Cap's "giddy optimism."
'Summer begins' TV teaser trailer, April 19, 2019 In this very short TV trailer, Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) says to a very dapper-looking Steve Rogers (Chris Evans), "We're trying to pull off something damn near impossible and to not die trying would be nice."
'Found' TV teaser trailer, April 18, 2019 In this Avengers: Endgame TV spot, Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson) says, "We've found something."
Fingers crossed that "something" helps in their pending last battle with Thanos.
The trailer also shows War Machine and Rocket running and falling to the ground.
Uh-oh.
'Awesome' TV teaser trailer, April 17, 2019 This Avengers: Endgame TV trailer isn't the first trailer footage not entirely focused on Thanos and his deadly snap, but it does include a few much-needed laughs from the heroes.
'To the end' TV teaser trailer, April 16, 2019 The first two minutes are a montage of all the other Marvel movies we've seen so far.
Though there's a tiny bit of new footage of Captain America checking out their new suits.
'No mistakes, kids' TV teaser trailer, April 15, 2019 This TV spot has a bit of new footage from the upcoming movie, including Captain Marvel going full glow, and Rocket Raccoon asking which one of the Avengers has yet to be in space once they're all sitting inside the ship.
That answer would be Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson), James Rhodes/War Machine (Don Cheadle) and Steve Rogers/Captain America (Chris Evans).
"Don't throw up," Rocket warns them.
'Mission' TV teaser trailer, April 11, 2019 In this TV spot, we see Captain America (Chris Evans) give one heck of an Avengers pep talk to the team about the daunting tasks ahead: "You know your teams, you know your missions."
But he also reminds the gang there's no room for mistakes when fighting Thanos, as they won't get a do-over on this one.
"This is the fight of our lives."
There's also more footage of the surviving heroes taking a ride with Captain Marvel (Brie Larson) on an impressive ship, plus explosions, Nebula flying, Rocket Raccoon (Bradley Cooper) wearing the new white suit, Ant-Man (Paul Rudd) and more.
First movie video clip, April 8, 2019 In this new clip from the movie, we see the remaining Avengers discussing Thanos and their strategy to take the stones from his deadly gauntlet to bring everyone back.
Their secret weapon to make sure this new plan works is none other than Captain Marvel herself.
Captain Marvel reminds the group she's been away saving other planets that don't have their own version of the Avengers to protect them.
The clip also comes with a new tagline, "We owe it to everyone not in this room to try."
'Special look' trailer, April 2, 2019 This new Avengers: Endgame special look trailer has the tagline: "It's not about how much we lost, it's about how much we have left."
The video shows the superheroes left after Thanos' deadly snap from Avengers: Infinity War.
We also see a very happy Pepper Potts hugging Tony Stark.
Stark and Captain America even put their differences aside and share a handshake.
The new footage gives a better idea of what's in store for the remaining Avengers, Guardians of the Galaxy members and more, plus they all get a ride with Captain Marvel in her ship.
But most importantly, we see Thanos (Josh Brolin) in all his glory with an ominous quote, "You could not live with your own failure.
Where did that bring you?
Back to me."
'We Lost' featurette, March 26, 2019 This Avengers: Endgame featurette titled We Lost comes with a new tagline "We're in the endgame now."
The featurette shows interviews with actors Chris Evans, Robert Downey Jr., Chris Hemsworth and others talking about how the surviving superheroes are "trying to keep their heads above water" in dealing with the aftermath of the deadly Thanos Snap.
Scarlett Johansson reveals that her Black Widow/Natasha character "is a little bit hardened from what she's had to go through."
Producer Kevin Feige says fans' sad reactions to their favorite characters dying is due to their intense emotional connections to the superheroes.
'Honor' TV teaser trailer, March 21, 2019 This Avengers TV teaser trailer, entitled Honor, offers a new tagline: "Today we have a chance to take it all back."
The new footage honors those superheroes lost in the deadly snap via Thanos -- including Black Panther, most of the Guardians of the Galaxy, Doctor Strange and Wasp.
It also includes a pep talk that promises the surviving Avengers will do "whatever it takes" to get them all back.
The full Avengers trailer offers a lot more clues of what's in store for the Marvel Cinematic Universe's end of Phase 3.
The footage shows Iron Man, Captain America, Black Widow, Hawkeye/Ronin, Rocket Raccoon, Bruce Banner, Ant-Man, Thor and the rest of the surviving superheroes preparing for battle.
Now playing: Watch this: Avengers: Endgame trailer takes you back to the start Each superhero recalls their own origin story and personal tragedies in the trailer, but there's a sense of hope as they band together for one final fight.
The new trailer also highlights a quote worth remembering: "The world has changed, and none of us can go back.
All we can do is our best, and sometimes, the best that we can do, is to start over."
Plus, we see Captain Marvel at the end meeting the gang, which means she could end up being their secret weapon to reverse the damage Thanos unleashed.
Though technically this clip isn't an Avengers: Endgame trailer, it's the footage of the Captain Marvel postcredits scene that shows what happens when Carol Danvers answers Nick Fury's pager message.
Captain Marvel almost magically appears behind Black Widow and asks, "Where's Fury?"
Now playing: Watch this: Avengers: Endgame's heroes are picking up the pieces "Some people move on, but not us."
Marvel dropped this teaser trailer during the Super Bowl on Feb 3.
In it, we see superheroes like Captain America attending a support group; Iron Man and Nebula repairing -- or perhaps upgrading -- armor; and Black Widow practicing at the gun range.
Even Hawkeye/Ronin shows up.
It's intense, super intense in fact, punctuated with hand claps you might say represent Thanos doing the old finger snap.
Now playing: Watch this: Avengers: Endgame trailer revealed "We lost friends, we lost family, we lost a part of ourselves.
This is the fight of our lives."
The first trailer for Avengers: Endgame debuted on Dec. 7, 2018 and showed a forlorn Tony Stark lost in space, trying to repair his ship so he can get back home.
Guardians of the Galaxy's Nebula is with him, so at least we know he has someone there to help him make repairs.
First trailer in Lego, Dec. 9, 2018 This is the exact same teaser trailer of Tony Stark in his ship, but somehow it's even cooler because the footage is re-created frame by frame in Lego.
Exclusive poster by Chris Skinner, April 16 Marvel Studios Here's the first in a series of 10 exclusive posters commissioned by Marvel Studios.
Art by Chris Skinner.
Exclusive movie posters by Matt Ferguson, April 15 Marvel Studios Marvel Studios These exclusive Avengers: Endgame movie posters by artist Matt Ferguson show the surviving superheroes poised for battle with the tagline "Avenge the Fallen."
These blue, black and red posters are only available to fans who see the movie in Odeon Cinemas.
IMAX movie poster, April 2 IMAX In this Avengers: Endgame movie poster from IMAX, both the surviving superheroes and the ones who died in the Thanos snap are honored.
RealD 3D movie poster, April 2 RealD3D This RealD 3D movie poster is more a variant of the Russian poster released in March.
Dolby movie poster, April 2 Dolby This Avengers: Endgame movie poster from Dolby shows the remaining superheroes, including a closer look at Warhammer's suit.
Note both Captain Marvel and super villain Thanos in the background.
Boss Logic - Marvel movie poster, April 2 Bosslogic This colorful Avengers: Endgame poster was created by artist Bosslogic, who was commissioned by Disney to make a one-of-a-kind poster.
For a limited time, when you buy a movie ticket for Avengers: Endgame on Atom Tickets, you can get this poster for free (plus shipping).
Russia movie poster, March 29 Marvel This Avengers: Endgame movie poster from Russia changes up how the superheroes are presented, with Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow (played by Scarlett Johansson) in the front.
Russia might have a soft spot for Black Widow, since she is after all a Russian spy.
China movie poster, March 28 Marvel In this poster from China, the heroes who survived the Snap are at the top, while those who died are below.
Curiously, Loki (Tom Hiddleston), who was killed by Thanos at the beginning of Avengers: Infinity War, is not shown.
Character posters, March 26 Marvel Studios Marvel released a new set of Avengers: Endgame character posters to finally reveal the fates of characters fans weren't sure survived Thanos' killer snap.
The new posters show surviving characters in full color, with the dead featured in black and white.
Most notably, Black Panther character Shuri (played by Letitia Wright) has a black and white poster, while Valkyrie (played by Tessa Thompson) from Thor: Ragnarok survived the Snap.
US movie poster, March 14 Marvel When Marvel released this first theatrical poster for Avengers: Endgame, fans were excited, until they noticed Black Panther actor Danai Gurira's name was omitted from the poster cast credits.
Luckily, Marvel also noticed the mistake and fixed it.
Avengers: Endgame is scheduled to open in theaters worldwide on April 26.
For more plot theories, characters reveals and news check out our Avengers: Endgame movie guide.
Also, check out our sister sites ComicBook.com and GameSpot for more Avengers: Endgame coverage.
If you want to catch up with the MCU movies before the Endgame begins, here's our guide to streaming them all.
Originally published March 21, 2019.
Updated with new trailer on April 22.
Ironic Software's trio of search tools are designed to make it easier to find files on a Mac.
But how do they work?
Erik Eckel takes a look.
Image: Getty Images/iStockphoto There's more than one way to find files on your Mac.
Ironic Software's search toolsLeap, Fresh, and Yeptake a different approach versus the traditional brute-force index search.
Although none of the three tools have been updated for almost a year at the time of this writing in spring 2019, the versions I tested proved an intriguing alternative to macOS' integrated Finder.
SEE: How to get the most from Apple's free productivity apps: 9 tips (free PDF) (TechRepublic) Fresh Take Fresh, for examplethe $8.99 app automatically collects new or recently changed files within the top of two windows that appear when you open the program (Figure A).
The top pane presents the fresh files (those that have changed recently), while the lower pane displays files you placed in the Cooler.
Figure A Image: Ironic Software In other words, you can purposefully place files in the Cooler simply by dragging them to a cooler menu that appears from offscreen when you drag a file to the right-hand screen edge (Figure B).
Figure B Image: Ironic Software The Cooler then becomes a quick-access repository for files with which you're working.
To help keep the Cooler from becoming full, as it's not intended for long-term cross-indexing (the location of the files on your Mac don't actually change), Fresh automatically discards those items from view that overflow the window.
You can also conduct a Spotlight search, thereby leveraging macOS' own index search capability, from directly within the Fresh window.
It's an interesting concept that helps narrow searches quickly, and because Fresh displays a pictorial image of each file, using the app can make it easier to spot differences between similar files.
Fresh can also apply tags to files.
SEE: macOS Mojave: A guide for IT leaders (Tech Pro Research) Leap Leap, a $25.99 utility, works differently.
The program leverages tags to enable more intuitive methods of finding documents, PDFs, images, videos, application-specific files, and other resources.
For example, instead of searching for productshot.jpg, you can search a more meaningful stringsuch as Acme Filter 1000that makes use of tags and more friendly language.
Leap search results also boast visual components (Figure C).
The combination of a preview or thumbnail and a tag, along with a filename, helps narrow the field and ensures the search returns targeted results with which you can make more relevant decisions than if you were just presented a filename.
Figure C Yep Yep is designed for locating common office files.
The $26.99 program automatically displays PDFs, iWork and Microsoft Office files, among similar resources (Figure D).
You need not worry about the directory in which you saved a document.
Figure D Image: Ironic Software It's easy to save a file within the last directory we were working, whether the document is remotely related to that topicwe've all done itbut Yep doesn't care; it simply displays Pages, Numbers, Excel, Word, and similar files upon opening.
When you conduct searches, Yep limits the results to similar documents and files.
The program doesn't distract you with video and image files, for example.
The bottom line Whether these search utilities work well for you ultimately depends upon how you prefer interacting with your Mac and retrieving information.
But the three tools' approaches definitely prove intriguing, and a little different.
As such, they may be worthy of your attention.
Apple Weekly Newsletter Whether you need iPhone and Mac tips or rundowns of enterprise-specific Apple news, we've got you covered.
Delivered Tuesdays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Contributing to open source gives developers and companies big advantages, but that's not translating into broad involvement.
Image: Artur, Getty Images/iStockphoto Open source may dominate the software we use to power the cloud, AI, and more, but a small percentage of developers do most of the coding.
While it has long been true that for any given open source project, the vast majority of core contributions come from a cabal of committed developers, it seemed like the popularity of using open source would bleed into writing open source.
Nope.
The problem, it would seem, is time.
SEE: How to build a successful developer career (free PDF) (TechRepublic) No lock-in, but plenty of lock-out Given the career benefits that accrue to active open source contributors, it's surprising just how few contribute.
According to a recent Stack Overflow survey, a mere 12.4% of developers contribute at least monthly, with another 23.1% saying they contribute at least once a year, but not monthly (Figure A).
Figure A Image: Stack Overflow This becomes a bit harder to understand when 80.2% of developers surveyed said that they code as a hobby.
While developers with kids are less likely to spend free time on coding, there is still a huge percentage of developers writing code in their free time.
So why aren't they contributing to open source projects?
It might not be for lack of trying.
Mathew Lodge, for example, points out that open source projects aren't always the most welcoming of places: "[M]any open source projects are unwelcoming to one-off contributions from folks they don't know ("chop wood & carry water" etc) and barriers to their contributions being accepted are perhaps significant."
The right to contribute to an open source project doesn't come easily, in other words, and developers may not want to invest so much of their hobby time in lobbying project maintainers for the right to contribute.
SEE: Open source vs. proprietary software: A look at the pros and cons (Tech Pro Research) Nor is it unreasonable that core maintainers would chafe at accepting one-off contributions.
As Mark Callaghan stressed, "I am wary of one-off contributions even when I know the contributor.
Contribution [involves] debt [e.g., it] take[s] time to review, more complexity/bugs, need[s] docs, QA, merging.
Contributions from people who might be around in the future to pay off that debt are preferred."
In addition, as Ross Gardler further explains, "The optimal model for open source is to develop shared components.
These numbers tell us that much of their time is spent in planning, glue code, testing, coordination (all good) and sometimes convincing unwelcoming owners that their contribution is valuable (not so good)."
In other words, for every line of code contributed, there is a lot of behind-the-scenes preparatory work involved to make it stick.
This isn't a major ordeal if you're getting paid to write open source software.
However, most aren't.
"Free" as in "no free time" While developers like to futz with code in their spare time, few have enough free time to use it toward serious open source contributions.
As Drupal founder Dries Buytaert has highlighted, "Open source communities often incorrectly believe that everyone can contribute.
Unfortunately, not everyone has equal amounts of free time to contribute."
The reason, he goes on, is because "inequality makes it difficult for underrepresented groups to have the 'free time' it takes to contribute to open source."
Hence, the idea of a meritocracy in open source communities is a bit of a myth.
Tobie Langel, writing earlier on the same topic, takes it further: Open source is largely built on engineers' free time.
And free time isn't evenly distributed.
People who work two shifts, who care for elders and childrencare-giving is still predominantly done by womenor with long commutes due to housing cost, just don't have the time to contribute.
The gender imbalance in tech is already pretty bad: women only represent 12% to 24% of the workforce depending on who you ask.
But it's much worse in open source.... Because open source provides experience, exposure, and a network to those privileged enough to participate, it contributes to widen the wage and position gap.
Indeed, over half of the respondents to GitHub's survey claimed open source was somewhat or very important in getting their current role.
As respondents were mostly men, it's easy to see who benefits.
Langel's suggestion is therefore to professionalize open sourceto pay developers to contribute.
This is already being done to good effect by a range of software (or software services) vendors, but remains stubbornly rare from mainstream users of software (banks, retailers, etc.).
It's unclear why, for as Langel has noted, "A well thought out and executed open source strategy can help a company improve and steer key projects it depends on, improve its engineering culture, reduce the diversity gap, do wonders for its image, and make it attractive to a much more diverse talent pool."
Individual developers can't resolve this.
Either they lack the free time to contribute for the reasons cited above, or maybe they have it, have benefited from it through contributions, and don't really need to fix anything.
But the companies that would derive even more benefits from contributing to open source and not merely consuming it...?
They're the ones that can resolve the inherent inequity of open source.
Open Source Weekly Newsletter You don't want to miss our tips, tutorials, and commentary on the Linux OS and open source applications.
Delivered Tuesdays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Creating a more diverse workforce can have many benefits for tech companies.
Tom Merritt shares five tips for getting women interested in applying.
Top 5 ways to get more women in your workforce Creating a more diverse workforce can have many benefits for tech companies.
Tom Merritt shares five tips for getting women interested in applying.
According to a 2018 study published by Deloitte (PDF), having more women in your workforce means lower project costs, better problem-solving, and increased innovation, among other things.
But companies often say it's hard to get women to apply for jobswe can help.
Here are five ways to get more women to apply for tech jobs.
SEE: IT leader's guide to achieving workplace diversity (free PDF) (TechRepublic) Be proactive and market to women: If you're not finding women applicants in the normal ways you recruit, look beyond those areas.
Find non-traditional places that have women's attention and recruit there.
Pay women the same as men: It's a big signal that you're committed to your female employees.
Make sure you do it, and make sure it's known.
Sponsor K-12 STEM programs: It's a longer term bet, but getting kids familiar with your company may make them more interested in working there.
And if the STEM program is half girls, you could end up finding more of them interested in working at your company when they grow up.
Make sure you have women leaders in your company: Not only will this provide mentorship to new workers, but from the outside it will show that your work culture is inclusive.
Make sure your benefits appeal to women: A report from Indeed found two-thirds of women surveyed named health insurance as most important when considering a new job.
Other benefits like vacation time, regular bonuses, and parental leave were also listed as important.
Some of these are easier than others, but if you want the benefits of a diverse workplace, they're worth looking into.
For more tips and info, check out "How tech companies can recruit and retain more women" by Kristen Lotze.
Executive Briefing Newsletter Discover the secrets to IT leadership success with these tips on project management, budgets, and dealing with day-to-day challenges.
Delivered Tuesdays and Thursdays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
5G networks require more base stations than previous LTE networks, making deployment in suburban and rural communities costly.
WISPs provide in remote locations using unlicensed spectrum bands.
5G cybersecurity concerns and physical challenges: What you need to know Dan Patterson discusses how 5G will enable IoT, AR, VR, 3D renderings, and more.
He also talks about the numerous cybersecurity concerns with 5G.
Proponents of 5G are touting the new technology as the "one global standard" for mobile communications.
But despite the excitement around 5Gparticularly for low-latency and machine-to-machine communicationthere is still room (and importantly, spectrum) for other wireless communications technologies.
Wireless Internet Service Providers (WISPs) will continue to be crucial in the age of 5G, as not all areas in the US can be economically serviced by traditional wireline broadband providers, and limitations inherent to 5G mobile broadband will make it unsuitable for practical use in rural or remote deployments.
Balancing long distances, many devices, and high speeds For wireless communications, one of the most significant encumbrances to engineer around is spectral efficiencythe rate of information that can be transmitted over a given bandwidth, measured in bit(s)/Hz.
Changes in radio resource management across successive generational standardslike the jump from LTE (16.32) to LTE Advanced (30)can be used to increase the spectral efficiency, though this is still effectively a hard limit.
SEE: Special report: How 5G will transform business (free PDF) (TechRepublic) Consider the generational change between 4G and 5G: One of the (relatively few) ways you can use 5G today is for mobile broadband.
Verizon's non-standard 5G TF network deployments in Sacramento, Los Angeles, Houston, and Indianapolis allocate 400 MHz for home internet service, with plans to double this to 800 MHz.
Verizon claims "typical speeds around 300 Mbps," and maximum speeds of 940 Mbps "depending on your location," roughly 3,000 feet from the base station.
These are good speeds, though several caveats apply to Verizon's 5G TF deployment: These are limited deployments in urban areas, with few subscribers, and little congestion This service uses 28 GHz (mmWave) frequencies, which are inherently line-of-sight The 5G TF equipment does not compete with standards-based 5G in smartphones Verizon is planning to transition these deployments with standards-based 5G in the future, which will eventually lead to a situation where home internet users are competing with smartphone users for network use, though the larger problem is delivering consistent speed.
Why mmWave-powered 5G does not work well at long distances Millimeter wave technology is inherently line-of-sightobstructions such as walls and foliage interfere with the signal, making it difficult to use inside buildings.
Likewise, mmWave signals are effectively absorbed by water droplets when it rainsa phenomenon known as "rain fade," similar to interruptions that occur when using satellite TV services during storms.
Ultimately, mmWave signalsalso called extremely high frequency (EHF) signalsdo not naturally travel as far as other lower-frequency signals, because of their physical properties and atmospheric effects.
As a result of these limitations, deployments of mmWave 5G networks will rely on a higher number of base stations, which individually can serve a few city blocks.
Base stations are generally connected to the network through wireline connections.
As these base stations are moving progressively closer to subscribers' homes, the economics of connecting rural users will limit rollouts in less densely-populated areasestablishing a need for a different technology that is better suited to the geographical realities of the areas requiring service.
Why wireless ISPs are still useful WISPs typically use proprietary equipment that operates over unlicensed frequencies, like the 900 Mhz, 2.4 GHz, and 5 GHz frequencies commonly used in wireless consumer electronics, and Wi-Fi networks.
This equipmentlike Verizon's 5G RF modemconnects to the WISP-operated network over this wireless connection, and provides a standard Wi-Fi signal for standard devices to connect to.
By using these sub-6 GHz frequencies, the radio equipment used by WISP subscribers is more resilient against rain fade and line-of-sight issues inherent to mmWave signalsand can be deployed to service users 10 or 20 kilometers away from the base station, rather than the 2-3 possible with mmWave 5G.
While specific attributes of WISP-operated networks depend on how individual network operators deploy their systems, the different frequencies that WISPs operate incompared to mmWave 5G mobile networksare key.
"Fundamentally, you have to think in terms of frequencies," said Sakid Ahmed, director of engineering at Cambium Networks.
With mmWave, "you know there's going to be distance and weather implications, it's designed for short distance, high capacity."
Part of the way this can be achieved is by using higher power antennas and intensive signal processing, both of which are more challenging to with technologies targeted toward battery-operated smartphones."
The radio technology that powers these networks has developed beyond the relatively slow Motorola Canopy equipment commonly in use a decade ago.
"What you need is many antennas on the internet source side and many antennas on the internet receiving side," said Kevin Jones, co-founder of Tarana Wireless.
SEE: Mobile device security: Tips for IT pros (free PDF) (TechRepublic) This principlealso known as MIMOis also used to provide increased speeds on Wi-Fi as well as 4G and 5G networks.
Though the WISP market lacks the same neatly delineated generations of radio equipment as the cellular marketin part, due to the vendor-specific, proprietary nature of the equipment usedthe technology behind it has continued to evolve in parallel, adopting many of the same principles and innovations found in 4G and 5G networks, but with a more targeted deployment scenario.
Mobile and home internet use vary significantly The fundamental difference between mobile and home internet use is that the 5G-like performance being driven by the cellular world requires a lot of infrastructure costs, including billing, provisioning, and roaming, Ahmed said.
Both cellular networks and WISPs are aiming to get more bandwidth to end users, though the contrast between the two markets is important: "Cellular guys are very focused on high urban density, high paying customersa lot of our [equipment] is getting to the people that are asking for higher bandwidth but not necessarily getting the attention of a Comcast or an AT&T," Ahmed said.
Modern smartphones are capable devices, though the ways home internet services are used do vary from smartphone usage.
For example, while you can stream Netflix on smartphones, streaming video in 4K on a TV is, comparatively, a significant increase in bandwidth use.
Telecommuters, likewise, need a reliably high quality of service from their ISP.
While Verizon's present 5G TF network is not shared with smartphones, future 5G networks from all operators will beand having home internet users compete with smartphone users for network access is a prospect that is difficult to cater to or engineer for.
Difficult-to-service markets WISPs cater to Cambium Networkscreated following Motorola's sale of the fixed-point wireless Canopy business in 2011, when Motorola spun out their mobile handset division into Motorola Mobilitycontinues to provide wireless systems for deployment in rural areas and developing countries.
ZDNet's Frances Marcellin covered a Cambium deployment by Disaster Tech Lab in 2016 on the Greek island of Lesbos, to provide Wi-Fi access to refugees.
For comparison, Tarana Wireless has worked with Chevron on a deployment of their wireless broadband technology in offshore oil fields in the Permian Basin, to supplant the use of comparatively high cost satellite modems.
Tarana touts the spectral efficiency as the "highest reported," at 100 bit(s)/Hz, and ability to operate in non-line-of-sight environments.
The company said it hopes to work with WISPs to deploy their wireless network system in suburban residential settings, in the near future.
Suburbia is typically the most common place WISPs are foundoutside major cities, the economics for traditional wireline internet are often not compelling enough for ISPs to deploy their services.
WISPA, a trade association of wireless ISPs, operates a directory of WISPs to help people in suburban areas connect to the internet.
Mobile Enterprise Newsletter BYOD, wearables, IoT, mobile security, remote support, and the latest phones, tablets, and apps IT pros need to know about are some of the topics we'll address.
Delivered Tuesdays and Fridays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Take this quick, multiple choice survey and tell us about your company's plans for prescriptive analytics.
What is prescriptive analytics, and why does your business need it?
It is not enough to simply gather data and model it anymore--you need to use it to create the best possible future for your business.
Prescriptive analytics is how you do it.
Trying to predict what will happen in the future is no easy task.
The growing popularity of prescriptive analytics, which leverages big data and machine learning (ML) to provide recommendations and forecast outcomes will certainly make it easier.
How do you set up an analytics infrastructure that sees around corners and gives you options to avoid a head-on crash?
TechRepublic's sister site, Tech Pro Research, is conducting a survey to find out.
If you're familiar with your company's prescriptive analytics plan, we want to hear from you.
The survey contains nine or fewer multiple choice questions and should take less than five minutes to complete.
SEE: Quick glossary: Business intelligence and analytics (Tech Pro Research) You'll be asked questions about how your company uses prescriptive analytics, project implementation, and what areas in your company use prescriptive analytics.
All respondents will have a chance to enter their email at the end of the survey and receive a free copy of the resulting research report, which is normally only available to Tech Pro Research subscribers.
Take the Tech Pro Research survey on prescriptive analytics, and you can request a free copy of the resulting research report.
Big Data Insights Newsletter Master the fundamentals of big data analytics by following these expert tips, and by reading insights about data science innovations.
Delivered Mondays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Microsoft's Azure machine learning tech is being put to good use in a grant program designed to give computing resources to scientists working on environmental sustainability programs.
Image: Cass Settlemyre, Getty Images/iStockphoto Data, Microsoft President Brad Smith wrote in an April 2019 blog post, "is a critical part of our work and a global transition to a low-carbon future."
All of the signs point to Earth facing a climate crisis; fortunately, there are tools and technology that could help.
Big data, along with the machine learning and artificial intelligence needed to transform it into actionable information, can give us a leg up on our environmental problemsprovided we use it.
Microsoft wants to make accessing powerful AI and machine learning technology more practical for scientists and environmental researchers, which is why it started AI for Earth in 2017.
In the mere two years since Microsoft founded AI for Earth, it has awarded over 230 grants to teams in 63 countries, covering four research areas: Climate change, agriculture, biodiversity, and waters.
SEE: How to implement AI and machine learning (ZDNet special report) | Download the report as a PDF (TechRepublic) Grants come in two forms: Data labeling services, which help get large datasets ready for AI processing, and Microsoft Azure computer credits.
Grant applicants are able to apply for one or both forms of grants.
Microsoft has built two APIs specifically for AI for Earth, and has stated that it continues to work on more.
Currently available is a land coverage mapping API and a species classification API.
The APIs are available to anyone who wants to use them.
AI for Earth projects With over 230 grants being awarded, there's a huge number of projects going on around the globe.
From apps average citizens can use to take pictures of wildlife for AI to classify to anti-poaching measures in Africa, the uses for AI in protecting natural resources is vast.
FarmBeats, a project that has been ongoing since 2015, is working on ways to improve agriculture using AI, edge computing, and IoT technology.
FarmBeats wants to establish an end-to-end platform that takes the manual tech work and know-how out of the farmer's hands.
By using sensors and automated drones, FarmBeats wants to give farmers the tools they need to plant more efficiently, using less resources and getting higher yields.
SEE: How self-driving tractors, AI, and precision agriculture will save us from the impending food crisis (cover story PDF) (TechRepublic) Project Premonition aims to use drones and other automated robots to find, trap, and gene sequence mosquitoes to prevent the spread of diseases like malaria, Zika, and Ebola.
It uses drones to map possible mosquito locations and deploys robots to trap the mosquitoes and deliver them to a lab, where scientists can sequence their genes.
The data gathered by gene sequencing doesn't focus on a particular pathogen, and instead gives scientists data like the types of animals they've bitten and any possible pathogen exposure.
SilviaTerra used its AI for Earth grant to develop a number of tools for forestry professionals looking to conserve woodlands more efficiently.
Built on the back of satellite imaging that predicts tree populations, SilviaTerra's software makes forestry mapping trips more efficient by improving routes and equipment inventories for scientists in the field.
Putting important data in one place Science generates data, but collating and transforming that data into action can be difficult.
When you add to that the sheer volume of data available, things get even more difficult, especially if all of that data isn't available to everyone who may need it.
AI for Earth takes a step toward rectifying that by offering services to organizations that may not be able to access them otherwise, and by centralizing data from government research agencies from around the globe in Azure cloud.
SEE: Microsoft backs six Aussie environment-focused AI projects (ZDNet) In addition, grant applicants that apply for data labeling have their data published on Microsoft Azure for the use of other researchers, further expanding the base of knowledge needed to turn AI into a tool for improving the planet.
Research takes time, and the impact of a project like AI for Earth isn't immediately available.
However, with all the data it's hosting and projects it has launched, Microsoft Azure could be the place to go for scientists looking for the data they need to make an impact.
Next Big Thing Newsletter Be in the know about smart cities, AI, Internet of Things, VR, autonomous driving, drones, robotics, and more of the coolest tech innovations.
Delivered Wednesdays and Fridays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
If you need a word processor for your Android device, you cannot go wrong with one of these five.
Five best word processors for Android If you need a word process for your Android device, Jack Wallen says you cannot go wrong with one of these five.
I write.
A lot.
On occasion, I write on the go.
It doesn't happen often (because I'm almost always at my desk), but when it does, I need the best tool for the job.
That means a quality word processor.
Fortunately, on the Android platform, there are plenty of tools for that task.
But which are the best in show?
I've narrowed the field down to five, each of which could easily stand as my go-to tool.
Without much ado, let's dive in and find out, which word processors made the list.
SEE: BYOD (bring-your-own-device) policy (Tech Pro Research) Google Docs Google Docs is a no-brainer for this list.
Why?
It's a full-blown word processor, that happens to be a part of the Google apps ecosphere.
Because of this, you can be certain of at least two things: It interacts seamlessly with the platform.
It runs with a level of reliability that similar apps cannot touch.
Chances are, since you're using Android, you're also quite familiar with the Google landscape of applications.
Any familiarity you have with the desktop version of Google Docs translates over to the mobile version, so you won't have any problem getting up to speed.
And even with the mobile version of Google Docs, you can export your document in any of the .docx, .pdf, .odt, .txt, .rtf, .html, .zip, or .epub formats (Figure A), making this a perfect tool for on-the-go business users.
WPS Office WPS Office has been around for some time and has proven itself a strong contender in both the desktop and mobile workspaces.
The mobile version of the WPS Office word processor makes writing on the go as painless as possible.
The WPS word processor has one of the best text formatting tools on the mobile market (Figure B), offers easy file sharing, can export to PDF, includes a document merge, includes a revise mode, and it can insert images, text boxes, shapes, comments, tables, spell check, and much more.
Although WPS might not integrate into the Google ecosphere as well as Google Docs, if you're looking for a mobile word processor with power and features to spare, WPS might be the tool for the job.
Polaris Office Polaris Office offers a very clean interface, that doesn't distract you from doing your job.
With multiple layout modes (Margins, Orientation, Size, Columns, Text Direction, and Page Layout), you can use Polaris in a way that makes sense for you.
Polaris also includes a basic review mode that offers spell check and comments (although, no revision feature), as well as the ability to annotate with a simple draw mode (Figure C).
One very handy addition is the included text-to-speech feature.
If you're on the go, and you need a document read aloud, you won't have to bother installing a third-party tool.
From the view window, tap the upward-pointing arrow and then tap Read Text.
This feature is not available in every Android word processor.
Free Office: Textmaker Mobile The free version of Textmaker Office might not have the modern-looking interface as the other tools, but it does a great job of allowing you to create and edit documents on the go.
In fact, of all the offerings on the list, Textmaker Office includes a feature set on par with the competition, and also offers a track changes option that is very similar to what you're accustomed to (Figure D).
And if you need help getting up to speed with Textmaker, there's a built-in help tool that can assist you in understanding how the interface and features function.
Just don't let the semi-outdated interface fool you, Textmaker Office is a stellar entry in the word processing field.
Microsoft Word Microsoft Word isn't the best of this bunch, but it is still better than other available options on the Android platform.
With an interface that is somewhat familiar to many users, Microsoft Word for Android offers one of the more shallow learning curves available.
Microsoft word also gives the user a choice between standard and mobile view (Figure E).
If you're working with an Android tablet, you might find the standard view is the better option.
No matter the size of your Android phone, the mobile view is the better option for such a device.
MS Word offers a fairly standard feature set for a mobile word processor.
No, you won't find every feature make its way from the desktop or cloud version of Word, but there is enough features to allow you to get that document written or edited, while on the go.
The choice is yours You have choicesplenty of them.
However, don't bother with the competition.
Instead, go straight for one of these five word processors, and you won't experience any problems working with documents on your Android device.
Mobile Enterprise Newsletter BYOD, wearables, IoT, mobile security, remote support, and the latest phones, tablets, and apps IT pros need to know about are some of the topics we'll address.
Delivered Tuesdays and Fridays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Want your business to gain a competitive advantage?
If so, learn what prescriptive analytics isand is not.
What is prescriptive analytics, and why does your business need it?
It is not enough to simply gather data and model it anymore--you need to use it to create the best possible future for your business.
Prescriptive analytics is how you do it.
The future of big data analytics has arrived, and it's called prescriptive analytics.
Gartner defines prescriptive analytics as a form of advanced data analytics that "examines data or content to answer the question 'What should be done?'
or 'What can we do to make _______ happen?'"
In other words, prescriptive analytics uses big data such as historical data and real-time data to not only anticipate what will happen and when but why something will happen and recommends actions to take based on those predictions.
By acting on these insights, businesses can maximize an impending opportunity, optimize a situation, mitigate future risk, and gain a competitive advantage.
See also: Hiring kit: Data architect (Tech Pro Research) As promising as prescriptive analytics seems, however, it remains a nascent technology, which can be confusing to deploy and manage.
Before implementing prescriptive analytics in your business, it's important to dispell misconceptions and understand what exactly prescriptive analytics isand what it's not.
5 prescriptive analytics myths 1.
Prescriptive analytics is the same as predictive analytics.
Prescriptive analytics works with advanced data analytics such as descriptive analytics and predictive analytics and builds on it.
For example, descriptive analytics provides insights into the past by answering "what happened."
Predictive analytics takes it a step further by forecasting "what is likely to happen" Whereas, prescriptive analytics prescribes an actual solution, as in "what we should do about it."
2.
Prescriptive analytics is foolproof.
Prescriptive analytics is only as effective as the data it receives.
Many factors can affect data quality.
For example, faulty data, bad assumptions, and poorly built models can all impact the reliability of prescriptive analytics' insights.
3.
Prescriptive analytics is easy.
Despite being faster and more comprehensive than human capabilities, you can't just press a button and instantly retrieve insights.
Prescriptive analytics relies on sophisticated analytics tools, techniques, and technology, like artificial intelligence, machine learning, heuristics, and algorithms to manifest solutions, which makes it challenging to implement and manage.
See also: Take this survey, and get a free research report 4) Prescriptive analytics has limited use cases.
Many industries including operations, supply chain, sales, marketing, telecom, finance, and more can benefit from prescriptive analytics.
For example, retailers like Amazon can use prescriptive analytics to improve customer service or recommend purchases; healthcare facilities can use prescriptive analytics to improve patient outcomes; oil companies can use prescriptive analytics to look for optimal drilling locations, and so on.
5.
Prescriptive analytics offers one solution.
Prescriptive analytics works 24 hours a day and continually processes new data as it becomes available to re-predict and re-prescribe solutions.
What do you think?
We want to hear from you Is prescriptive analytics a solution for your company?
How actively is your company using prescriptive analytics?
Are you confident that the data you're using in your prescriptive analytics is reliable?
Take this prescriptive analytics survey from TechRepublic's sister site Tech Pro Research and let us know.
All respondents will have a chance to enter their email at the end of the survey and receive a free copy of the resulting research report, which is normally only available to Tech Pro Research subscribers.
Next Big Thing Newsletter Be in the know about smart cities, AI, Internet of Things, VR, autonomous driving, drones, robotics, and more of the coolest tech innovations.
Delivered Wednesdays and Fridays Sign up today Sign up today
Your nmap service probe database is probably out of date.
It's easy to update that special file to the latest version.
How to update the Nmap database Your nmap service probe database is probably way out of date.
Jack Wallen shows you how to update that special file to the latest version.
Chances are, you use nmap as your go-to network scanner of choice.
There's a good reason for that.
Not only is nmap free and open source, but it's also one of the most powerful and flexible tools of its kind.
But did you know that your nmap service probe database is probably out of date?
That's right.
Even though you keep your installed version of nmap as up-to-date as possible, it could very easily depend on an old database release.
Why is that key?
The database is used when running a network probe for services.
That database is not automatically updated, which means any services that undergo changes (since you first installed nmap) might not be reflected in the version you use.
SEE: Server deployment/migration checklist (Tech Pro Research) So how do you update the database?
Manually.
Let's find out how.
What you need You only need nmap installed and a user account with sudo privileges.
I'll demonstrate this process on Ubuntu Desktop 18.04, but the task should be the same on nearly any platform (with minor adjustments).
Checking your database The first thing you want to do is compare your nmap database release to the latest version.
To check your installed release, open a terminal and issue the command: less /usr/share/nmap/nmap-service-probes The second line will give you the release number (Figure A).
The example I presented was from a fresh installation of nmap and includes a version that is almost three years old.
To find out the current release number, point your web browser to the current nmap database, which will show a release number of 37619.
That's more like it.
How do we fix this?
Update the database To update this database, you need to first move the current database (to serve as a backup).
From the terminal window, issue the command: sudo mv /usr/share/nmap/nmap-service-probes /usr/share/nmap/nmap-service-probes-XXXX Where XXX is the release number of the database to be moved.
Next, download the newest version with the commands: cd /usr/share/nmap sudo wget https://svn.nmap.org/nmap/nmap-service-probes Open that file with the command: less nmap-service-probes You will notice there is no version number in this file (Figure B).
I highly recommend that you add the version number to this file, so the next time you check it you can compare it to the latest available release.
To add the version number, issue the command: sudo nano nmap-service-probes Add the version number in the form of: # $Id$ nmap-service-probe XXXX YEAR-MO-DT NAME Where XXXX is the release number, YEAR-MO-DT is the Year-Month-Date and NAME is your Linux username.
Once you add that information, save and close the file.
Your nmap database is now fully updated.
You can start using it to scan your network, knowing the service probe database is more capable of returning correct and successful results.
Cybersecurity Insider Newsletter Strengthen your organization's IT security defenses by keeping abreast of the latest cybersecurity news, solutions, and best practices.
Delivered Tuesdays and Thursdays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Oracle stopped providing free security updates to the widely-used Java 8 in January.
Here's how to stay protected.
Why companies need to teach high school students to code Teaching young people to code will help close the tech skills gap, according to Crystal Adkins, a Java and Android instructor for Interapt Skills.
Oracle's stewardship of Javawhich it acquired along with Sun Microsystems in 2010has long been a point of contention among Java programmers and organizations deploying (or evaluating) Java in their environments.
Despite Sun's open source-friendly stance, Oracle has been less than enthusiastic about continuing Java as a fully open-source solution, a problem amplified by changes in their licensing for OpenJDK.
The release cycle for Java, similarly, has changed under Oracle's stewardship.
While typical programming languages such as C and C++ receive modest maintenance updates every few years, Java versions, as of Java 9, are incremented every six months, with Java 11 designated as the first long-term (LTS) version of Java.
The problem is, Java 8 is still the most widely-used version of Java on desktopsdoubtlessly due in part to Minecraft, though a variety of enterprise applications also rely on Java 8.
SEE: 10 ways to prevent developer burnout (free PDF) (TechRepublic) Despite that, Oracle stopped providing security updates to Java 8 in January 2019, in an attempt to force organizations into paid licensing agreements.
Naturally, running out-of-date, insecure versions of Java is an exceptionally bad idea, presenting a conundrum to IT managers responsible for the deployment of Java applications: Either pay to maintain support for something that was once used for free, orif even possibleattempt to move an application off of Java entirely.
There is a viable third option, however: Using a non-Oracle distribution of Java.
Because Java is still fundamentally open source, any organization that wishes to ship its own patched version of OpenJDK can do so.
Red Hatwhich contributes to Java upstream, and ships a number of their own products built on Javais doing just that.
Red Hat is taking the mantle of OpenJDK maintainer for versions 8 and 11, which will be supported until June 2023 and October 2024, respectively.
New features are not expected for either version, as both are essentially in maintenance mode.
As mentioned earlier, version 8 predates the six month release cadence, and version 11 is an LTS version.
Because of this, versions 9 and 10 will remain unsupported.
Red Hat already maintains OpenJDK 7, and will continue to do so until June 2020.
Red Hat's OpenJDK is not just for RHEL, as the company is also providing Windows versions of OpenJDK.
Updates are planned to be published on a quarterly basis.
The company is also planning to ship IcedTea-Web, an open-source implementation of Java Web Start, which remains a proprietary extension.
Oracle released Java 12 last month.
TechRepublic's Nick Heath takes a deep dive into the new features in Java 12, and provides insight into how developers can benefit from features in the newest release, as well as a deep dive into what is in store for the future of Java.
Tech News You Can Use Newsletter We deliver the top business tech news stories about the companies, the people, and the products revolutionizing the planet.
Delivered Daily Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Companies in these states recruited the most remote workers in the last year, according to FlexJobs.
Top 5 careers for remote workers Working remotely is becoming an increasingly popular practice.
Tom Merritt discusses five career options that allow you to work from home.
Remote work is becoming the new norm for many employees: The benefits of increased flexibility and better work-life balance has led 73% of all teams to predict that they will have remote employees in the next decade.
Despite this freedom, for a variety of reasons, including legal, taxes, and licensing issues, the majority of remote jobs require workers to be based in a specific city, state, region, or country, according to a Monday report from FlexJobs.
To help remote job seekers find the best position, the report examined the states with the most jobs requiring candidates to be located in a certain place.
SEE: Special report: IT Jobs in 2020: A leader's guide (free PDF) (TechRepublic) "According to a new report, between 2010 and 2017 16% of all white-collar jobs added to the economy have been filled by people primarily working from home," Sara Sutton, founder and CEO of FlexJobs, said in a press release.
"As this and other data demonstrates, remote work overall is absolutely on the riseincluding those that have a geographic requirement, but also the highly coveted remote jobs that can be done from any location."
Here are the 15 states with the highest number of remote job listings last year, making them high potential targets for job seekers this year, along with the three most popular remote career categories: Data entry, legal, nonprofit & philanthropy Data entry, accounting & finance, software development Data entry, legal, accounting & finance Data entry, computer and IT, legal Data entry, legal, editing Graphic design, data entry, accounting & finance Data entry, computer and IT, legal Data entry, accounting & finance, computer and IT Data entry, nonprofit & philanthropy, computer and IT Data entry, computer and IT, accounting & finance Data entry, graphic design, editing Data entry, legal, HR and recruiting Nonprofit & philanthropy, HR & recruiting, data entry Data entry, accounting & finance, engineering HR & recruiting, data entry, computer and IT To learn more, check out How to land a remote job, and thrive in it on TechRepublic.
Executive Briefing Newsletter Discover the secrets to IT leadership success with these tips on project management, budgets, and dealing with day-to-day challenges.
Delivered Tuesdays and Thursdays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Creating a bootable Linux USB flash drive isn't a challenge with the help of Popsicle.
How to flash a Linux ISO image to USB with Popsicle Creating a bootable Linux USB flash drive doesn't have to be a challenge.
With the help of Popsicle, you can burn those images with a couple of clicks.
You might purchase your data center Linux servers from the likes of System76, Red Hat, or SUSE.
Those servers come pre-installed with Linux, and you won't need to install the operating system.
However, should you purchase bare-metal, off-the-rack hardware, those servers might ship without an operating system.
If you want to install Linux, you will need to use a USB flash drive complete with a bootable version of your favorite Linux server distribution.
There are a number of tools that can handle this task.
If you happen to work with System76's very own Pop!_OS, you'll be happy to know that there's a built-in tool that makes flashing a Linux image to a USB drive incredibly simple.
SEE: Disaster recovery and business continuity plan (Tech Pro Research) How easy?
Let me show you.
What you need The only things you need are: A machine running Pop!_OS.
A formatted USB flash drive with about 8 GB of free space (just to be safe).
A Linux ISO image to burn.
Using Popsicle First, make sure to insert your USB flash drive into your system.
To start Popsicle, open the GNOME Dash and type popsicle.
Click on the launcher labeled USB Flasher (Figure A).
From within the Popsicle main window (Figure B), click Choose Image and, from within the Nautilus file manager, navigate to and select the Linux ISO image to be burned.
Click Next and then, in the resulting window (Figure C), select the drive that will house the bootable image.
Make sure you select the correct drive, as all data will be erased.
You do not want to accidentally select the wrong drive, only to wind up losing precious data.
If you're not sure which drive to select, you can always open a terminal window and issue the command df -h to find out which drive is correct (Figure D).
Click Next, and the burning will commence (Figure E).
Depending on how large the image, the process can take anywhere from two to ten minutes.
When the burning completes, click Done and safely remove the USB drive.
You are now ready to use that drive to install whatever version of Linux you chose onto your data center servers.
Feel the burn Using a tool like Popsicle makes burning bootable flash drives a few simple clicks away.
There might be other tools that include more options, but none will have you feeling the burn with the simplicity of Popsicle.
Open Source Weekly Newsletter You don't want to miss our tips, tutorials, and commentary on the Linux OS and open source applications.
Delivered Tuesdays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
The unmanned virtual store from startup lululab uses artificial intelligence to provide personalized skincare solutions.
Brick and mortar retail digital transformation is powered by mobile device data Stephanie Dismore, VP & GM, Americas Channels at HP Inc. explains how mobile devices and big data are shaping how brick and mortar retailers understand their customers.
Beauty startup lululab, a Samsung spin-off, introduced its artificial intelligence (AI)-based Beauty Store last week in Dubai Mall, according to a Monday press release.
The AI Beauty Store is an unmanned virtual shop combining AI and big data tech to bring individualized skincare recommendations.
SEE: Special report: Digital transformation: A CXO's guide (free PDF) Digital transformation in retail has been revolutionizing the way customers shop.
Through tools such as digital marketing, analytics, sensor data, facial recognition, augmented reality (AR), and virtual reality (VR), retailers are attempting to make the shopping experience more individualized and efficient.
Beauty retail chains in particular have been taking advantage of such technologies.
In the US, for example, Sephora uses AR to help customers get an idea of how makeup will look on them, and also uses AI to match their skin tone to the correct foundation.
Lululab's AI Beauty Store follows suit through three major features: Self-skin analysis, product recommendations to help solve customer's skincare problems, and the provision of an outcome report, the release said.
Using a multispectral camera at the LUMINI kiosk in the mall, customers can take a single selfie to determine the current state of their skin condition, along with recommended skincare products.
This technology makes shopping a much more personalized and effective experience, preventing customers from having to aimlessly wander shopping malls for random, expensive skincare, the release noted.
Customers can also receive discounts on recommended products, the release said.
To learn more about digital transformation in retail, check out ZDNet's Data, AI, IoT: The Future of Business special feature.
Next Big Thing Newsletter Be in the know about smart cities, AI, Internet of Things, VR, autonomous driving, drones, robotics, and more of the coolest tech innovations.
Delivered Wednesdays and Fridays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
More than 23 million people were breached after using the password 123456, according to the UK's National Cyber Security Centre.
Top 5 ways to pick a secure password Picking a secure password is crucial to protecting sensitive information.
Tom Merritt offers five do's and don'ts for picking the strongest password possible.
Despite the number of high-profile cybersecurity breaches, millions of people continue to use default or easy-to-guess passwords for work and personal accounts, leading to increased risk of security incidents, according to a Sunday report from the UK's National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC).
The report includes the top 100,000 passwords from the Have I Been Pwned data set to determine which regularly used passwords have been hacked the most often.
SEE: Password managers: How and why to use them (free PDF) (TechRepublic) Here are the most commonly used passwords revealed in data breaches, according to the report: 123456 (23.2 million) 123456789 (7.7 million) qwerty (3.8 million) password (3.6 million) 111111 (3.1 million) Rounding out the top 10 most hacked passwords are 12345678, abc123, 1234567, password1, and 12345, the report found.
Other commonly used passwords revealed in breaches included the names ashley (432,276) and michael (425,291); the musicians blink182 (285,706) and 50cent (191,153); and the fictional characters superman (333,139), naruto (242,749), and tigger (237,290).
"Password re-use is a major risk that can be avoidednobody should protect sensitive data with something that can be guessed, like their first name, local football team or favourite band," NCSC technical director Ian Levy said in a press release.
"Using hard-to-guess passwords is a strong first step and we recommend combining three random but memorable words.
Be creative and use words memorable to you, so people can't guess your password."
Password best practices The report also surveyed 1,350 UK citizens about their cybersecurity practices.
Only 15% said they know a great deal about how to protect themselves from harmful activity online, and 42% said they expect to have money stolen on the internet in the next two years.
While 80% of respondents agreed that cybersecurity is a high priority, another 46% said information about how to be secure online is confusing, the report found.
Only about half of respondents said they always use a strong, separate password for their main email account than for other accounts, according to the report.
When it comes to creating a strong password, long, complicated options are not always best, according to the NCSC.
One good option is to make your password three random words strung together, as this can be memorable for you, but difficult for someone to guess.
For more, check out the Top 5 ways to pick a secure password on TechRepublic.
Cybersecurity Insider Newsletter Strengthen your organization's IT security defenses by keeping abreast of the latest cybersecurity news, solutions, and best practices.
Delivered Tuesdays and Thursdays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Top change agents don't sit idle.
Learn how they help organizations achieve results.
Video: Why digital transformation requires change management At Microsoft Ignite, Jeff Willinger of Rightpoint explains the tools needed for digital transformation.
Top change managers (CM) seldom sit idle.
Their ears are always listening to the people and chatter that sets the tone for change.
By staying on top of the organization's direction, understanding what is transforming the business, and remaining tuned into the company's culture, change managers help organizations achieve higher rates of buy-in and improve agility and strategic alignment.
In addition, they practice these four things on a daily basis.
SEE: Vendor relationship management checklist (Tech Pro Research) 1.
Staying on top of the organization's direction Keeping their fingers on the pulse of the entire organization helps change managers understand not only the direction of the company but also when and why.
By having a solid grasp of this type of information, CMs become more automatic and fluid instead of reactive.
Change managers can anticipate and plan better instead of operating in the after-the-fact mode.
Top change managers are more likely to be involved in leadership planning sessions to prepare for what's coming and help functional areas prepare and successfully adjust.
Without having a clear sense of where an organization is headed well in advance, change managers are at a disadvantage, which means the entire organization is ill-prepared, too.
2.
Understanding what is transforming the business Many things can impact a business transformation.
Top change managers strive to understand, which mechanisms play a role in business transformation efforts.
Maybe transformation is taking place through technology, or a change in policy and procedures?
It could be new legislation, a leadership shuffle, or even an opportunity that surfaced?
Regardless of the actual driver, top change managers make sure to know what the drivers are, how it impacts the business, and when.
Change management experts also strive to keep on top of the mechanisms to help them better prepare companies as a whole for future changes.
3.
Listening to the chatter Changes mean chatterusually constant chattersometimes loud and sometimes soft.
Chatter comes from all levels within an organization and in various forms.
It can take the form of gossip, formal discussions, or simple grumblings.
Either way, chatter is part of a cultural barometer.
By listening to the chatter, change management experts are in a more open state of mind, that allows them to take in more information and captures informal data that can be used to make better decisions and preparations.
SEE: Quick glossary: Project management (Tech Pro Research) 4.
Tuned-in to internal and external culture The culture of an organization plays a vital role in managing change, adoption of changes, and being prepared for future changes.
A strong change manager understands this and strives to stay tuned-in to the overall tempo and temperature of the organization's internal and external culture including the employees, full-time, part-time, and contract, as well as vendors, customers, and other stakeholders.
By understanding the internal and external culture, change managers can access how well changes will be tolerated and adopted.
They also may be more preemptive by engaging the leadership team in conversations about the impact of change on the company's culture and vice versa.
Executive Briefing Newsletter Discover the secrets to IT leadership success with these tips on project management, budgets, and dealing with day-to-day challenges.
Delivered Tuesdays and Thursdays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
CLOSE Samsung's Galaxy Fold is here, but is it worth it?
We went hands-on with Samsung's nearly $2,000 phone to find out.
USA TODAY Samsung is delaying the release of the $1,980 Galaxy Fold indefinitely.
The foldable hybrid smartphone/tablet had been scheduled to go on sale in the U.S. on Friday.
Now Samsung is saying it will reveal a new release date "in a few weeks."
At issue, of course, is the screen breakage reported by a few of the early reviewers who were given devices a week ago.
The design of the Fold appeared initially to be quite a technological achievement: It allows you to transform the device from a chunky 4.6-inch candy bar smartphone into a 7.3-inch tablet, just by unfolding it like an old flip phone.
Target car seat trade-in: Retail chain's event returns April 22 with a discount for bringing in old seat Google Pixel 3 for half off: Here's how you can get one The back of the Galaxy Fold.
(Photo: Eli Blumenthal, USA TODAY) But problems quickly emerged.
The display on the unit given to a CNBC reviewer, for example, flickered uncontrollably, causing the device to turn off and completely malfunction.
Other reviewers removed a protective layer that was not meant to be peeled off causing the screen to break Samsung hadnt made it clear that this layer was supposed to remain in place.
In working on our review, neither I nor my colleague Eli Blumenthal removed the layer on USA TODAYs own review unit, and we havent encountered the flickering screen or other display issues.
Such issues, however, were serious enough to return the Fold back to the drawing board.
In a statement emailed to USA TODAY, Samsung said, "We recently unveiled a completely new mobile category: a smartphone using multiple new technologies and materials to create a display that is flexible enough to fold.
We are encouraged by the excitement around the Galaxy Fold."
"While many reviewers shared with us the vast potential they see, some also showed us how the device needs further improvements that could ensure the best possible user experience."
The company added "to fully evaluate this feedback and run further internal tests, we have decided to delay the release of the Galaxy Fold.
...
Initial findings from the inspection of reported issues on the display showed that they could be associated with impact on the top and bottom exposed areas of the hinge.
There was also an instance where substances found inside the device affected the display performance."
Samsung said it "will take measures to strengthen the display protection.
We will also enhance the guidance on care and use of the display including the protective layer so that our customers get the most out of their Galaxy Fold."
The company also said that customers who pre-ordered the Fold can cancel at any time, and that folks haven't been charged yet anyhow since the devices have not shipped.
Samsung would have had a tough time selling the new device, anyhow, given the near $2,000 sticker shock.
Now the question is not only what the impact will be on Samsung, but also on the nascent foldable phone category that had promised to provide a jolt of innovation into a smartphone market that has mostly been stagnant in recent years.
Samsung has been badly bruised in this space before.
Less than three years ago, it had to recall three times (and finally discontinue) the Galaxy Note 7 phablet phone, which had batteries that kept catching fire.
The episode not only cost Samsung billions of dollars but also led to a public relations nightmare from which it appeared to have finally recovered.
"This decision has to hurt, but it's definitely the right call if it there was a significant chance of high failure rates on pricey phones in the field," says tech analyst Avi Greengart of Techsponential.
"However, the good news is that Samsung is taking steps now, before products reach consumers."
For now, though, the Fold fiasco puts Samsung right back in hot water.
Email: ebaig@usatoday.com; Follow @edbaig on Twitter Galaxy Fold screen breaking: Samsung has a mess with the nearly $2,000 Galaxy Fold: Screens are breaking, reviewers say Galaxy Fold hype: Galaxy Fold first look: We go hands-on with Samsung's nearly $2,000 foldable phone Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/2019/04/22/samsung-galaxy-fold-delayed-after-reports-screen-issues/3537837002/
CLOSE Samsung is in hot water again for its nearly $2,000 Galaxy Fold hybrid smartphone/tablet, before it even goes on the market.
USA TODAY Samsung has reportedly cancelled press events for its Galaxy Fold smartphone that had been scheduled in China this week.
The move comes just days after the new folding phone, priced at nearly $2,000, has had some issues with screens breaking for reviewers.
The South Korean tech giant over the weekend postponed press events planned for Tuesday and Wednesday in Hong Kong and Shanghai, respectively, according to several media reports.
No reason was provided for the cancelation of the Hong Kong event, reported Richard Lai, Engadget senior editor, who is based in Hong Kong and is also editor in chief for Engadget Chinese.
But Samsung reportedly had a problem with the Shanghai venue, according to China's National Business Daily.
No new dates have been set for either press event, Endadget's Li reported, and there was no word on whether an event planned Thursday for Taipei is going on as planned.
The 4.6-inch foldable hybrid phone, which when opened transforms into a 7.3-inch tablet, is scheduled to be released in the U.S. and other selected markets on Friday.
But last week, several reviewers with early review units of the Galaxy Fold reported major display issues on the tablet screen only a couple of days into testing.
In some cases, the phone became useless.
Apparently causing some of the problems: several reviewers removed a protective film covering the Fold's screen, which was not supposed to be removed.
USA TODAY's Edward C. Baig and Eli Blumenthal, who are reviewing the product, did not remove the film on the phone and have not had any issues to this point.
That has not been the case for CNBCs Todd Haselton, who also did not remove the film during but wound up with the screen on his review unite flickering and turning off and on at a rapid pace.
Samsung did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the situation.
Galaxy Fold follies: Samsung has a mess with the nearly $2,000 device as screens are breaking, reviewers say Cheap smartphones: $1,000 for a smartphone?
How about $100?
Follow Mike Snider on Twitter: @MikeSnider Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/news/2019/04/22/samsung-cancels-galaxy-fold-events-china-amid-broken-screen-claims/3536831002/
How I flew to Japan and am headed to Spain for free CLOSE Looking to book your next vacation?
Here are some tips and tricks to save money when booking flights, selecting hotels and applying for credit cards.
USA TODAY LOS ANGELES I'm set to say bon voyage soon to Madrid, on a free airline trip, my fourth in two years.
Courtesy of the Chase Sapphire Reserve, I've gone to Hawaii, Japan twice, and now soon Spain.
The card is a pricey splurge $450 a year in fees, but Chase gives you a $300 credit for dining and travel purchases once you've hit that number, (which includes taxis and Uber rides), three points per dollar spent on travel and dining purchases, or one point per dollar for others.
And there was that generous 100,000 points signup bonus when I joined.
With that and the 3x offer, the points added up really quickly.
In a nutshell, the 100,000 points got me two free tickets to Japan.
It varies with airlines, the time of year you fly and the various deals of the moment, but generally 50,000 points is good for one international flight, and 25,000 for domestic.
I don't game the system by checking the Chase website, but I suppose if I had more free time or was more of a hardcore shopper, I would.
The Chase site does note that certain stores like Sephora, ProFlowers and the Samsung online store are offering four points, 10 points and two points to the dollar, respectively, if you use your card for purchases.
I try to use my cards for everything from insurance renewals to Uber rides and watch the points accrue.
(I went virtually cashless several years ago.)
I did add to the game by recently closing one travel card, and signing up with a new one, the Bovay card listed below, to qualify for the 100,000 miles sign up offer.
One offer that caught my eye, but didn't hook me was 60,000 bonus miles to pick up Chase's new Sapphire banking offer.
Fine print: a deposit of $75,000 to qualify.
Sorry Chase, that's way too rich for my blood.
So how does Sapphire compare to other cards out there now?
And who's got the best bonus deals?
The Prado museum in Madrid, Spain (Photo: Jefferson Graham) The Sapphire card is still generous, but it no longer has the biggest sign-up bonus.
Now, Chase has two varieties of the Sapphire card Reserve, which has more liberal benefits, or Preferred.
The Preferred sports a lower $95 annual fee, plus 60,000 bonus points and 2x points on travel and dining expenses, or 1x on other purchases.
The Reserve offers 50,000 points, but 3x on travel and dining and a hefty $450 annual fee.
Chase lowers the fee to $150 after the $300 travel and dining credit.
Two other cards currently stick out for generous offers.
Marriott Bonvoy Boundless Points: 100,000, after you spend $5,000 in first three months.
Limited time: Offer closes April 24th Fee: $95 Fine print: This is a card aimed at Marriott travelers, with a liberal 6x points for stays at a hotel property versus 2x otherwise.
But unlike the Sapphire card, you can't just call the Chase travel agency and set up a flight on any airline.
You need to set up the card with a specific airline, and then book your flight accordingly.
American Express also has a Marriott Bonvoy edition card, aimed at Marriott travelers.
It offers the same 100,000 points bonus, but carries a more expensive $450 fee.
You do get a $300 credit for spending at Marriott hotels.
It also offers free travel medical insurance and roadside assistance.
Like the Bonvoy Chase card, the 100,000 point offer from AmEx closes on April 24th.
Chase Ink Business Bonus Points: 80,000 Fees: $95 yearly Fine print: You need to be a business owner, but if you are, this is an even better deal than when the Sapphire Card gave away 100,000 points.
Reason: you can also get points for paying your bills.
Chase promises 3x points on travel and dining, as well as advertising purchases, or your internet, cable and phone bill.
Unlike the Marriott card, which requires you to choose just one airline to associate your points with, the Chase Ink (and Sapphire) cards allow you to book flights on any airline you choose from a Chase travel site.
It also offers discounted fares on rental cars.
Barclaycard Arrival Plus World Elite Bonus points: 70,000 Fee: Free for first year, then $89 Fine print: You get 2x points on all purchases plus a 5% mile rebate after you redeem travel.
So, for instance, if you redeem 40,000 miles, you get a 2,000 mile bonus added to your account.
Plus you get to choose any airline for your travel.
Capital One Venture Bonus Points: 50,000 Fee: 0 for first year, then $95 yearly Deals: 2x points on purchases, or 10x when used via Hotels.com through January, a generous perk for hotel guests we haven't seen any other card come close to.
(For comparison, the Marriott Bonvoy card is 6x points for Marriott stays.)
In choosing a card, "think about what your goals are," says Sarah Silbert, who reviews cards for the Pointsguy.com website.
"If you want to get free travel to Europe," choose a card like the Sapphire card or an airline that flies to Europe.
A Southwest Visa card, for instance, wouldn't be a good choice, she notes, "because it doesn't fly there."
Southwest, by the way, is offering 40,000 points to sign up for its card, as long as you agree to spend $1,000 in the first three months.
There's an annual fee of $69.
It offers 2x points for Southwest purchases, 1x for others.
Speaking of other airlines.
American: 60,000 bonus miles with Citi's AAdvantage card.
Terms: Spend $3,000 in first six months and no fee for first year, then $99.
Only 2x points on food, gas and American Airlines purchases, 1x for the rest.
Perk: preferred boarding and first bag checked is free.
Delta: Has four cards from American Express, offering 10,000 to 40,000 bonus points, with 2x points for Delta and food purchases, 1x for the rest.
United: Explorer card, from Chase, offers 40,000 bonus points if you spend $2,000 in first 3 months or 60,000 if you spend $8,000 in six months.
Perks include priority boarding and free checked bag.
Points: 2x on food, gas and United purchases, 1x for rest.
Many of the cards offer other perks as well, including paying your TSA Pre fees, entrance to airport lounges and some travel insurance as well.
Check the card websites for more details, which are the best places to sign up for the cards.
Remember that in signing up for the cards, you'll need to have a decent credit history for approval, and that free flights are only worth it if you pay your bill on time and don't accrue those massive interest charges.
Finally, what about gaming the system?
Sign up for a card, spend the required amount, get the bonus points, take a flight, then cancel and move on to another card?
Silbert says it can be done, but be careful.
Doing so could affect your credit score negatively, and alternatively, banks could flat out refuse your request for a new card, based on your history.
Follow USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham (@jeffersongraham) on Twitter, Instagram and YouTube.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2019/04/20/best-deals-travel-credit-cards-chase-marriott-citi/3473727002/
CLOSE A Sri Lankan government official says a local militant group is responsible for the Easter Sunday suicide bombings.
(April 22) AP, AP Sri Lankan authorities flicked the off switch on most social media after Easter Sunday attacks on churches and hotels killed hundreds of people, a dramatic reaction that reflects distrust in the capability of American internet companies to control harmful content.
The block on social media including Facebook and its WhatsApp and Instagram services was announced by the governments official news portal, which cited the spread of false news reports online.
The NetBlocks observatory said it detected an intentional blackout of the popular platforms as well as YouTube, Snapchat and Viber.
Twitter appeared unaffected.
Officials likely feared that the spread of inflammatory content could provoke more bloodshed in Sri Lanka, a Buddhist-majority island nation that has large Hindu, Muslim and Christian minorities and a long history of ethnic and sectarian conflict.
At least 290 people were killed in the bombings.
Sri Lankan security forces secure the area around St. Anthony's Shrine after an explosion in Kochchikade, Sri Lanka on April 21, 2019.
(Photo: Getty Images) Attack aftermath: ASOS billionaire loses three children in Sri Lanka bombing attacks Death toll: Several Americans among 290 dead in Sri Lanka Ivan Sigal, head of the internet and journalism advocacy organization Global Voices, said the countrys rapid action was a telling moment.
A few years ago wed be using these platforms to help each other and coordinating assistance.
Now we view them as a threat, he wrote on Twitter.
If I were Facebook and WhatsApp Id take a moment to ask myself where Id gone wrong, he said.
Cannot think of a clearer signal for lack of platform trust.
It wasnt the first time Sri Lanka has blocked social media.
The government imposed a weeklong ban in March 2018 because of concerns that WhatsApp and other platforms were being used to fan anti-Muslim violence in the countrys central region.
Facebook is increasingly in the crosshairs of regulators, rights groups and the public as it tries to balance what CEO Mark Zuckerberg has called giving people a voice and demands for censorship of hate speech and other harmful content posted on Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp.
It faced intense criticism after the right-wing extremist who attacked two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, last month, killing 50 people, live-streamed the massacre on Facebook.
The U.N. in a report last year blamed the social media company for the spread of hate speech in Myanmar that dehumanized Rohingya Muslims and contributed to persecution that caused hundreds of thousands to flee the country.
In the past, blocking social media would have been seen as outrageous censorship, Sigal said, highlighting the shift in attitude to social media sites.
Now we think of it as essential duty of care, to protect ourselves from threat.
Sri Lankas government said the shutdown would extend until it concludes its investigation into the bomb blasts that rocked churches, luxury hotels and other sites.
NetBlocks, however, said post-attack blackouts can be ineffective.
What weve seen is that when social media is shut down, it creates a vacuum of information thats readily exploited by other parties, said Alp Toker, executive director of the London-based group.
It can add to the sense of fear and can cause panic.
Thats going to be a problem for people trying to communicate with friends and family, Toker said.
Some internet users are circumventing the social media blocks by using a virtual private network, which masks the location of a computer, Toker said.
An analysis by Sri Lankan researcher and author Yudhanjaya Wijeratne of thousands of Facebook posts made during last years ban found that many Sri Lankans simply found ways around it.
Wijeratne has recommended narrower and more technically challenging approaches to curbing hate speech, such as better detection and strengthening local laws.
Facebook said it was aware of the Sri Lankan governments statement.
People rely on our services to communicate with their loved ones and we are committed to maintaining our services and helping the community and the country during this tragic time, the company said.
Tesla Model S explosion: Electric carmaker investigating apparent case of vehicle exploding in China Galaxy Fold update: Samsung cancels folding phone events in China amid malfunctioning screen claims Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/news/2019/04/22/sri-lanka-authorities-block-social-media-after-easter-sunday-bombings/3537597002/
CLOSE USA TODAY Tech columnist Ed Baig demonstrates a feature on Google's latest handsets that can screen calls coming in from potential scammers.
USA TODAY If you want to get a discount on a brand new Google Pixel 3 or Pixel 3 XL, then Monday, April 22, is the best time to do so.
The mobile search giant cut the smartphones' prices in half for its fourth anniversary of Project Fi.
In case you didn't know, Fi is Google's cellular coverage plan.
The most affordable phone, the 64GB Pixel 3, is discounted from $799 to $399 or $16.62 a month.
The 128GB version is $449, compared to the regular $899 price.
Cheap phones: $1,000 for a smartphone?
How about $100?
Don't buy this phone yet: Samsung cancels Galaxy Fold events in China amid malfunctioning screen claims The Google Pixel 3 XL costs $449 for 64GB and $499 for 128GB.
The XL smartphones would otherwise cost $899 and $999.
The Pixel 3 XL has a larger screen size and better battery life than the standard Pixel 3.
The smartphone deal is only available for new and existing Google Fi customers, and the offering runs until midnight.
It's applied automatically when you check out.
For even more savings, you can combine the deal with a device trade-in offer by giving up your current smartphone, Google says.
No matter what phone you have, the Google Fi plan only charges you for the data you use, and when you hit a certain amount of data, its free for the rest of the month.
For $20 a month, you get unlimited domestic talk and text, unlimited international texts, and access to cellular coverage in more than countries.
Follow Dalvin Brown on Twitter: @Dalvin_Brown.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/2019/04/22/google-offers-half-off-pixel-3-and-pixel-3-xl-one-day-only/3537074002/
The 8 best deals and sales you can get online this Sunday This weekend, you can find amazing deals on everything from DNA test kits to affordable rugs.
(Photo: Ancestry / Wayfair) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA Todays newsroom and any business incentives.
The weekend is my favorite time to shop.
There's no distraction from meetings or deadlines, so you can really spend time not only browsing the best deals and sales, but also researching your purchases and making sure your money is not going to waste.
I don't know about you, but I've definitely been a victim of the impulse buyseeing something that looks really amazing and has an alluring price tag, bringing it home (or opening the box) and discovering it's actually a hunk of junk that you now have to deal with returning or cutting your losses.
It sucks.
Plain and simple.
To help you avoid buying a dud, I sought out the most impressive and worthwhile sales and deals happening right now that I thought you'd want to know about.
From a DNA test kit sale to discounts on discounts at Anthropologie to a sale on helpful tech accessories, here are this weekend's best ways to shop.
More: This awesome soundbar is on sale for a great pricebut it won't last 1.
The most popular DNA kit is 30% off CLOSE Heard about Ancestry DNA but nervous to try it out yourself?
Two of our employees took the test to find out how it works and if it's worth it.
Reviewed.com If you always click on stories about people discovering long-lost family thanks to a DNA test kit, maybe it's time to see if your own genetic code holds any mysteries of your own.
Right now and through April 25 (DNA Day!
), Ancestry is discounting their popular DNA testing kits to just $70 on their own site as well as on Amazon.
This is the second best sale price we've seen so far this year.
Considering that Ancestry is constantly updating and refining your results, this is a great time to try it out.
Get the Ancestry DNA Test Kit from Ancestry for $69 (Save $30) 2.
These camping chairs are 30% off Stop hoping your friends will bring extra chairs for you and get your own.
(Photo: Coleman) Summer is coming, and that means more opportunities to relax outside and soak up the warm weather.
Whether you prefer the beach, the campground, the park, or your backyard, having a nice place to sit can make your summer days even better.
This Amazon Deal of the Day is definitely right up your alley, then.
And the best part is that these chairs each have a built-in cooler bag big enough to hold four cans, which means more relaxing and less running back and forth to the house or cooler.
The $20 price tag is the best we've seen this year and only about $1 more than the best-ever price for these normally $30 chairs, so there's no reason to wait for a better deal.
If you've never sat in one before, I can tell you they're so comfortable and sturdy you'll wonder how you got them so cheap.
Just note that the discount is only for the red and blue options.
Get the Coleman Portable Camping Quad Chair with 4-Can Cooler for $19.99 (Save $10) 3.
Nordstrom's massive Spring Sale is happening now This gigantic sale features top items in fashion and home decor.
(Photo: Nordstrom) Whether you want to add a few new pieces to your spring wardrobe or just want to liven up your home decor with trendy accents, Nordstrom's Spring Sale is the sale to shop.
This sitewide sale features big discounts on popular brands like BP., Madewell, and Topshop, and yes, even those infamous Capri candles are discounted right now.
My fashion-forward coworker put together a list of her 16 favorite sale items if you want to see the top pieces on sale.
You can always just dive right in and start browsing too.
Just know that with any Nordstrom sale, things sell out fast.
In this case, I recommend acting on your impulse if you see something you love.
Shop the Nordstrom Spring Sale 4.
Marie Kondo's book is only $3 on Kindle See what all the fuss is about.
(Photo: Marie Kondo) You've watched the Netflix series, you've read countless articles about it, and now you can go deeper with a super cheap copy of Marie Kondo's book, The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up.
This self-help book has swept the nation into a decluttering frenzy, and if you want to learn more about why asking if your possessions "spark joy" today's Deal of the Day on the book is worth checking out.
This usually $17 book is just $3 right now.
The only catch is it's for Kindle only.
If you don't have one, you truthfully can't go wrong with any model, and you can always download the app for free on any smartphone or tablet and read the book there.
Get The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up by Marie Kondo for Kindle for $2.99 (Save $14) 5.
The 'Big Rug Sale' at Wayfair offers major discounts You can find loads of rugs like these are great prices in this sale.
(Photo: Wayfair) Who doesn't love a good rug sale?
Honestly, I wish I could cover my whole house in trendy rugs, but they're usually way more expensive than I care to think about.
Right now, however, Wayfair's holding a big old sale with prices you won't balk at.
They're discounting rugs of all sizes, shapes, and designs as much as 70%, and the closeout sale promises even bigger price drops.
You can find 8'x10' rugs for $100 and 5'x8' area rugs for as little as $40.
If you're sick of your family stomping around on your hardwood floors, or you want to spruce up your living spaces, this sale is definitely worth poking around.
Shop the Big Rug Sale at Wayfair 6.
Anthropologie is taking half off all sale items Save big on home decor, spring fashion, and fun accessories with this incredible sale on sale.
(Photo: Anthropologie) Whenever I shop for clothing online, I always head to the sale section first.
I love a good bargain, and I'm more concerned with finding something in my style at a discount than I am about buying or wearing the latest trends.
Anthropologie's sale section is usually full of goodies at great prices, and this weekend they must be trying to clear out their inventory because the entire sale section is an extra 50% off.
Things are selling out super fast, so I recommend using filters to shop for your exact size.
Otherwise you might find something fall in love with it, and then find out it's only available in one size that's definitely not yours.
Shop the Anthropologie 50% Off Sale Sale 7.
The best paring knife is back to its best price Having a good paring knife can make so much kitchen prep that much easier.
(Photo: Reviewed / Lindsay D. Mattison) Unless you'e a trained chef (or have big dreams of winning a kitchen gameshow), you really don't need a lot of fancy knives.
A good chef's knife can handle most any task, but when you need to do something more preciselike deveining shrimp and peeling applesyou should have a solid paring knife at the ready.
This one from Wusthof blew the competition out of the water when we tested all the best paring knives with its impeccably balanced build that made it the easiest and most comfortable blade we tested.
Right now, this $50 knife is back down to the lowest price we've ever seen, making it a great time to level up your home cooking game.
Get the Wusthof Classic High Carbon Steel Knife Paring Knife for $39.95 (Save $10) 8.
An amazing soundbar is 27% off This soundbar is the perfect way to enhance your gaming and movie experience.
(Photo: Samsung) Let's face it.
You've been using the built-in speakers on your TV for too long and the madness needs to stop.
TV makers don't really put much effort into including nice sound because most people have external setups.
Surround sound might be the golden standard for a home theater, but it's expensive and complicated to set up if you're not supe tech-savvy.
Soundbars have been growing in popularity because they give you basically the same sound enhancement (you'll actually be able to hear the dialogue for once) and this one from Samsung is a great option, especially if you already have a Samsung TV.
The HW-N650 is the next step up from the model we tested in our roundup of the best soundbars under $500, meaning it delivers better sound quality thanks to a few extra speakers.
We were quite fond of the N550 we got to try, especially loving how intuitive it was to sync to a Samsung TV.
Right now the N650 is under $300 at Massdrop, marking the best price we've seen by over $100.
The price you pay for such a huge discount is that it won't ship until May 7, but we think it's more than worth the wait.
Get the Samsung HW-N650 Soundbar for $289 at Massdrop (Save $110) The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest deals, reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/04/20/best-deals-weekend-nordstrom-anthropologie-ancestry-dna-and-more/3528262002/
Gaming Instagram for fun & profit in expose Think you can believe what you see on social media?
Ask Trey Ratcliff, Robert Mueller and Mark Zuckerberg about that.
All three pretty much confirmed the answer to the question this week.
The photographer Ratcliff released a new book in which he details how easy it was to create a fake Instagram account and game it with bought followers, likes and comments, in return for offers of cash, free trips and goods.
The book's title: Under the Influence How to Fake Your Way Into Getting Rich on Instagram: Influencer fraud, Selfies, Anxiety, Ego, and Mass Delusional Behavior.
Then the "Mueller Report," the look into possible Russian collusion during the 2016 presidential campaign, was finally released, albeit with redactions and It zeroed in on how the Russians played social media to sell their preferred candidate Donald Trump to the public, through false statements and reports.
And in the latest admission about things that were way worse than originally seemed, it emerged that Zuckerberg and his Facebook had stored "millions" of unencrypted Instagram users passwords on Facebook servers.
Facebook had originally said it was just "tens of thousands."
Photographer Trey Ratcliff (Photo: Michael Rubitschka) How safe is your personal information with the social network?
I think we know the answer.
But let's take a look at Instagram, the site of happy people who look beautiful, take great, expensive vacations, have lots of friends and lead a better life than you do, or so it seems.
The site is ripe with "influencers," people like the Kardashians, Zach King and Andrew Bachelor, whose sponsored posts usually showcases them with products in their hands.
According to Ratcliff, some $2 billion was spent on influencer marketing in 2017, a number he says will grow to $10 billion by 2020.
Ratcliff, himself a social media "influencer," with over 5 million followers, mostly from his popular Stuck in Customs blog, says Facebook and Instagram, which the social media titan owns, "create a false narrative that makes the rest of us feel like losers," so he set out to expose it, with the phony @Genttravel account, in the hopes that changes would start to be made.
After showing how easy it is to buy followers, likes and comments from sites, Ratcliff is hopeful that Facebook will eventually see the light and clean up its act.
"Otherwise, we're sitting on top of this false economy where you can't believe anything you see, and people feel they don't add up," he says.
Instagram says that services that offer to boost an account's popularity via inauthentic likes, comments and followers "aren't allowed" and "we're developing technology to remove this activity from Instagram.
But clearly there's a cottage industry online to buy the fake followers and such, from companies such as Buzzoid ($39.99 for 5,000 followers"We will give you the likes and followers you deserve and help you grow your social presence!")
or Buzzdayz ($55 for 15,000 followers) But don't try this at home kids!
On Medium writer Areej Younes points out that in the long run, the fake followers won't really help grow the channel.
"You are simply buying fake and empty likes.
There are no organic or real followers behind these accounts.
It is just a number.
Resorting to this tactic will ultimately keep you in the trap of buying likes for every piece of content you post because youre obviously going to keep up the image of popularity on your posts."
But clearly many people are doing it and getting away with it.
Is your life as happy and great looking as your friends on Instagram?
Taking a look at a hologram of Roy Orbison from behind a video screen (Photo: Jefferson Graham) In other tech news this week Samsung: Arguably, the most innovative tech product of the year is the Samsung Fold, a new $1,980 phone that opens up into a tablet for the biggest smartphone screen we've seen to date.
There's only one little problem.
The phone is fragile, and has already been broken by reviewers from the likes of CNBCand The Verge.
This is less than three years after a scandal involving the thrice-recalled, and eventually discontinued, Galaxy Note 7 and its exploding batteries.
Making up: Amazon and Google dropped their cold war this week.
Google's YouTube will soon be available again on the Amazon Fire TV Stick and Amazon branded Fire TV Edition television sets, while Amazon Prime video will be accessible on the Google Chromecast streaming dongle and Android TVs.
Additionally, in the middle of a big lawsuit, Apple and chipmaker Qualcomm settled their spat, and now Qualcomm has agreed to make high-powered chips for upcoming Apple iPhones.
Samsung and LG have already announced that they are using Qualcomm's chips in their respective, upcoming Galaxy S10 5G and V50 ThinQ 5G phones.
In response to the Apple news, chip rival Intel said it would drop out of the 5G modem business.
More with Amazon and Google.
The companies, which make the popular Echo and Google Home speakers, announced free music deals for their customers.
Echo owners can now access free ad-supported music, and Google Home fans can get ad-free music from YouTube Music.
Google's deal goes a little further, in that the songs are available to any Google branded speaker, which includes the brands JBL, Sony and Harman.
Songs aren't available on-demand with Echo or Home, but instead you can listen to playlists and/or stations based on a request.
We had an interview with a ghost this week, well, more like an encounter with one, in holographic form, when we caught up with a laser-projected video of the late rocker Roy Orbison at a studio in Los Angeles.
The occasion was to plug the fall tour featuring holograms of Orbison and the late Buddy Holly on stage with a rock band.
Odd?
For sure.
Check out this snippet from a jam session with the hologram.
This week's Talking Tech podcasts Facebook and death Checking out Samsung Fold Zynga looks to Snapchat and GOT Sarah Silbert from the Points Guy talks credit card deals My interview with a hologram Trey Ratcliff on gaming Instagram That's it for this week's Talking Tech wrap.
Listen to the daily Talking Tech podcast, and follow me on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2019/04/20/trey-ratcliff-exposes-how-he-bought-fake-instagram-followers-likes/3528683002/
CLOSE Is Tesla preparing to offer Model 3 leasing?
Elizabeth Keatinge has more.
Buzz60 Tesla is reportedly looking into reports that one of its vehicles suddenly exploded in China.
This comes the day before the electric car company is set to have a soft earnings event at its Palo Alto headquarters on Monday.
Surveillance footage of the explosion out of Shanghai was posted on social media on Sunday.
It seems to show a first generation Model S bursting into flames for no apparent reason.
In the 23-second clip, the Tesla car self-ignites and emits white smoke just before exploding in a parking lot beside other cars.
The time stamp on the video shows the incident happened on Sunday night.
What's a 'frunk'?Electric cars like Rivian, Tesla, Jaguar offer unique storage spaces Want a Tesla?
: You can now lease the Tesla Model 3, but don't expect to buy it in the end There are no known casualties at this time, Tesla said in a Chinese-language post on Weibo, China's version of Twitter.
"After learning about the accident that occurred in Shanghai, we sent the team to the scene last night," a translation of the post reads.
USA TODAY reached out to Tesla for more information.
The incident comes less than a week after local media in Monroeville, Pennsylvania reported that a Telsa vehicle burst into flames and burned for hours.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk is hosting an event at the companys headquarters Monday to discuss self-driving technology with investors.
Later this week, Tesla is expected to release its first-quarter results after falling short of its production and delivery estimates.
Tesla shares were down 2.07 percent to $267.60 in premarket trading on Monday.
Follow Dalvin Brown on Twitter: @Dalvin_Brown.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/cars/2019/04/22/tesla-investigate-sudden-model-s-explosion-fire-china/3536748002/
Its a tale as old as time: youre trying to find the perfect present for someone special who really loves to read, but you're feeling totally stumped because you don't know which books they already have and which ones they dont.
While you might be tempted to just pick a random book and wing it, that could be a letdown waiting to happen.
Instead, you can put a smile on the face of your literature-loving friend, family member, or partner with a gift thats still totally bookish, but isnt actually a book.
Below are some of the best gifts for book lovers you can find online.
From the latest tablets to floating bookshelves and so much more, these accessories can help make your favorite bookworms life easier and get them to have a little extra fun along the way.
1.
A brand-new Kindle Credit: Reviewed / Michael Desjardin This new Kindle comes with four adjustable LED lights and is great for newbies.
Reviews: N/A Average rating: N/A Why its a great gift: Some book lovers crave the intimacy of an actual book, while others enjoy the convenience that using an e-reader provides.
In the end, its all about personal preference.
The latest Kindle is a great introductory model for newbies and comes with some excellent features that will appeal to Kindle fans, including front-facing LED lights at long last.
For about $20 more, you can get a Kindle Paperwhiteour pick for the best Kindle you can buy nowor splurge on a Kindle Oasis, which is the most high-end model and comes with larger storage and the highest resolution.
Get the All-New Amazon Kindle e-Reader (10th Gen.) on Amazon for $109.99 2.
Plus a protective case to go with it Credit: Amazon Keep your Kindle protectedand looking greatwith a cover.
Reviews: 20,550 Average rating: 4.6 stars Why its a great gift: Designed to fit perfectly on the latest Kindle, this lightweight case from Amazon comes in four stylish shades and is made with a microfiber interior, which means itll protect the screen and keep it clean when the reader is between books.
For older models, this top-rated leather cover or this slimshell case are also excellent options to consider.
Get the Amazon Kindle Fabric Case on Amazon for $29.99 3.
A gift membership to Audible Credit: Amazon What can you get the book lover who has everything?
This Audible gift membership is a great place to start.
Reviews: N/A Average rating: N/A Why its a great gift: Know someone who loves to read but doesnt have a ton of free time to do it?
Audiobooks are the perfect alternative for folks always on-the-go.
You can give the gift of Audible memberships that last 1, 3, 6 or 12 months.
In addition to getting one free audiobook plus two Audible originals per month, members get 30% off additional audiobooks and can exchange them at any timeeven after they finish listening to them.
Get an Audible membership on Amazon starting at $15 for 1 month 4.
This kit thatll help with book retention Credit: Amazon Create your own library with this clever kit.
Reviews: 204 Average rating:4.7 stars Why its a great gift: Nothings worse than loaning out a beloved books and then never getting it back.
This kit can help change that.
It comes with checkout cards, a date stamp, and everything else needed to create an at-home circulation desk.
Even better?
Loaned out books might start coming back again, for a change.
Get the Knock Knock Personal Library Kit for $12.98 5.
A book stand that you can take anywhere Credit: Book Seat / Amazon This pillow just for your books can make any space perfect for reading.
Reviews:4.4 stars Average rating:226 Why its a great gift: Most book stands are rigid and can be difficult to travel with.
But The Book Seat actually molds to whatever surface its on, so you can use it to set up a reading space no matter where you are.
It also doubles as a travel pillow, so its great for snoozing on trips, too.
Get The Book Seat on Amazon for $39.40 6.
A pair of these super cozy and bookish socks Credit: Amazon These socks make a great gift for bookworms with a playful side.
Reviews: 480 Average rating: 4.7 stars Why its a great gift: This is one pair of socks youll definitely want to check out if you're shopping for a book lover.
Available in a variety of sizes and printssome of which are modeled off classic novels like A Clockwork Orange and The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxythese socks are a must-own for bibliophiles.
Get the Out of Print Literary and Book-Themed Unisex Cotton Socks on Amazon for $12 7.
This handmade wooden eyeglasses holder Credit: Uncommon Goods When a good book turns you into a night owl, this eyeglasses holder can come in handy.
Reviews: 388 Average rating: 4.7 stars Why its a great gift: A good read can turn anyone into a night owl.
Luckily, this holder helps keep glasses safe and easy to grab after a post-reading nap.
Carved from sheesham wood in India, this striking but practical holder also makes for an excellent piece of art for any bedroom or guest room.
Get the Owl Eyeglasses Holder at Uncommon Goods for $24 8.
This Game of Thrones-inspired cookbook Credit: Amazon Get a taste of the Seven Kingdoms with this cookbook.
Reviews: 575 Average rating: 4.8 stars Why its a great gift: You dont have to be a huge fan of Game of Thrones to get a taste of what life in Westeros is really like.
This cookbookwhich includes a foreword from author George R. R. Martinfeatures more than 100 recipes inspired by the series, so your GoT-loving friend can host the kind of legendary feast thatll make you both feel worthy of the Iron Throne yourselves.
Get A Feast of Ice and Fire: The Official Game of Thrones Companion Cookbook on Amazon for $21 9.
A magnetic poetry kit thats just for book lovers Credit: Amazon Write your own story on your fridge with this magnet set.
Reviews: 104 Average rating: 4.4 stars Why its a great gift: Once upon a time, there was a gift for bookworms so perfect, it couldnt be denied.
With this magnetic poetry kit made especially for reading enthusiasts, you can create evocative word art (or maybe just a few clever puns) right on your fridge, or add it to the collection you already have for endless amounts of fun.
Get the Magnetic Poetry - Book Lover Kit on Amazon for $12.95 10.
A rechargeable LED book light Credit: Amazon This book light is a great gift for any bookworm.
Reviews: 2611 Average rating: 4.7 stars Why its a great gift: Reading in the dark can strain your eyes and lead to headaches, vision problems, and general discomfort.
(Trust me, I know.)
But sometimes keeping a light on beside can wake up a roommate or partner.
Thats why this rechargeable LED light is so clutch for book lovers: you can clip it onto a book or Kindle (if you have an older model with no backlight) and softly adjust its brightness and direction, creating a private reading space for wherever you are.
Get the LuminoLite Rechargeable LED Book Light on Amazon for $12.99 11.
This simple yet brilliant page holder Credit: Amazon This page holder has a cult-like following on Amazon for a reasonit really works.
Reviews: 118 Average rating: 4.2 stars Why its a great gift: Keeping a book wide open can be a hassle, especially if your friend is always trying to keep one hand free for other things (ahem, wine).
Made from walnut, this rustic page holder will keep their book wide open without damaging it, and itll keep their thumb from getting tired as they read.
Get the PagePal Page Holder in American Walnut on Amazon for $26.95 12.
A candle that pays homage to your favorite literary greats Credit: Amazon Bookish scents, all inspired by your favorite authors.
Reviews: 392 Average rating: 4.0 stars Why its a great gift: Inspired by noted writers, this collection of scented soy candles is a sweet option for any book lover.
These candles come in a variety of sizes and scents, including amber and smoked birch, cedar and wild fern, and more, and are a big hit with reviewers on Amazon, who say theyve got a solid throw and really last.
Get the Paddywax Library Collection Scented Soy Wax Candle on Amazon for $26.47-$29.94 13.
This banned books-inspired canvas tote bag Credit: Amazon Celebrate your love of banned books with this roomy tote.
Reviews: 392 Average rating: 4.0 stars Why its a great gift: Some of the most significant books ever published were actually banned at one point.
While Banned Books Week (which takes place in September) is a good time to delve back into these classics, this canvas tote bag is a fun way to honor the spirit of those seminal works year-round.
Get the Out of Print Literary and Book-Themed Canvas Tote on Amazon for $20 14.
This weird but amazing book floatie Credit: Amazon This wacky inflatable float is a fun gift for book lovers.
Reviews: 3 Average rating: 5.0 stars Why its a great gift: This inflatable book jacket is one of those inventions thats almost too absurd to exist.
Designed to keep books afloat while in the tub or pool, the waterproof jacket wraps the edges of a book in a protective layer, so it stays in place and the pages are at least a little less likely to get wet.
Is it practical?
Not so much.
Is it a lot of fun anyway?
Absolutely.
Get the Inflatable Book Jacket from Urban Outfitters for $20 15.
A novel collection of delicious teas Credit: Amazon Bookish tea lovers are sure to appreciate this set.
Reviews: 124 Average rating: 4.1 stars Why its a great gift: Made with English Breakfast tea, this set is a must-try for bookish tea lovers.
It comes with 25 teabags, each of which is individually tagged with a literary quote from writers from around the world.
Reviewers say these teas are the gift that keeps on giving, plus the flavor itself is totally mouthwatering.
Get the Novel Teas 25-Pack on Amazon for $13.50 16.
This poster thatll help you tackle your TBR list Credit: Amazon Conquer your to-be-read pile with this funky poster.
Reviews: 24 Average rating: 4.1 stars Why its a great gift: Got a TBR ("to be read") pile that just keeps getting bigger and bigger?
This poster can help your book-loving loved one scratch a bunch of titles off their bucket list and have some extra fun along the way.
Featuring 100 must-read booksincluding a mix of classics like In Cold Blood and popular contemporary reads like The Girl with the Dragon Tattoothis poster will still look terrific even after youve tackled every book on the list.
Get Gift Republic 100 Books Bucket List Poster on Amazon for $13.31 17.
This unique folding book lamp Credit: Amazon This stunning light makes for a unique gift for book lovers.
Reviews: 31 Average rating: 4.2 stars Why its a great gift: This innovative light offers a creative spin on the standard table lamp.
It looks just like a book, but folds open to reveal a warm, soothing glow.
It also comes with a USB port, so its easy to recharge and take anywhere.
Get the MOMO Book Light on Amazon for $33.99 18.
A set of very cool floating bookshelves Credit: Amazon These floating shelves are a brilliant way to show off any collection.
Reviews: 1,081 Average rating: 4.7 stars Why its a great gift: These bookshelves completely changed the way I organize my collection.
Easy to install and designed to hold up to 20 pounds per shelving unit, this three-pack gives books the appearance of literally floating on a wall, which is striking.
In the process, these can also help you utilize empty space that wouldnt be suitable for traditional shelves or standing organizers.
Get the Umbra Conceal Floating Bookshelves (Set of 3) on Amazon for $29.99 19.
This stylish infinity scarf for bookworms Credit: Uncommon Goods This literary scarf adds a touch of elegance to any ensemble.
Reviews: 92 Average rating: 4.9 stars Why its a great gift: Know someone who loves getting wrapped up in old classics?
Now they can in more ways than one with this trendy infinity scarf, designed by Tori Tissell for Uncommon Goods.
Decorated in passages from select books (you can choose from Pride and Prejudice, Jane Eyre, and others), this scarf adds a romantic touch to any ensemble.
Get a Literary Scarf by Tori Tissell at Uncommon Goods for $48.00 20.
A mug of memorable opening lines Credit: Amazon Is your favorite line in this?
Reviews: 965 Average rating: 4.7 stars Why its a great gift: The best opening lines can suck you into a story like nothing else.
This 12-ounce mug features 24 of the best openers in literature ever, with excerpts from classics like A Christmas Carol, Anna Karenina, Pride and Prejudice, and more, so your loved one can sip their favorite hot or cold beverage and slip right back into old, familiar tales.
Get the First Lines Literature Coffee Mug on Amazon for $15.94 21.
These literary page flags that wont damage your books Credit: Barnes and Noble These helpful page tags are a great study aid and won't end up damaging your books.
Reviews: N/A Average rating: N/A Why its a great gift: These adorable page flags are a go-to pick for students and book lovers who may want to remember specific passages from a book but dont want to damage the quality of each page over time.
Styled after different characters in major literaturefor example, you can get Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Darcy in the Pride and Prejudice kitthis collection of page flags can be a helpful study aid and are incredibly fun to use.
Get Page Flags at Barnes and Noble for $5.95 22.
An adjustable tablet stand Credit: Amazon This adjustable holder works with virtually every tablet.
Reviews: 3,540 Average rating: 4.6 stars Why its a great gift: This adjustable stand is compatible with most Kindles, Apple iPads, and other tablets and makes it easy to securely read or view content from any device without adding extra strain.
In addition, its designed to be lightweight and portable, so someone can take it virtually anywhere and get a hands-free experience.
Get the AmazonBasics Adjustable Tablet Stand on Amazon for $8.99 23.
These sturdy bookends that cat parents will love Credit: Amazon These feline-inspired bookends are a great touch to any library.
Reviews: 20 Average rating: 4.7 stars Why its a great gift: For messy bookshelves, this set of steel bookends is a playful way to keep your collection in order.
Designed by Eric Gross for Uncommon Goods, these feline-inspired bookends gets rave reviews from shoppers, who say theyre sturdy, elegant, and a delightful pick for cat loving bookworms.
Get these Cat Scratch Bookends at Uncommon Goods for $65 24.
A set of seriously cute bookmarks Credit: Amazon Plunge into a new read with these adorable bookmarks.
Reviews: 7 Average rating: 4.1 stars Why its a great gift: One can never have too many bookmarks, but theres something extra-special about this set of two.
Built to rest between the pages, these crocodile and hippo-themed bookmarks are just lurking in wait, ready to draw a reader back into another storyand maybe when they least expect it.
Get the Crocomark and Hippomark - Cool Animal Bookmark Set (2 Pack) on Amazon for $16.99 25.
This journal to keep track of books youve read Credit: Amazon Stay on top of your reading with this helpful book journal.
Reviews: 145 Average rating: 4.4 stars Why its a great gift: This journal is a good option for those looking to track their reading progress and streamline their TBR lists.
It contains lists of potential books to read, as well as sections where its easy to jot down notes about a books plot or characters, or simply your giftee's main takeaways for their next book club.
Get The Book Lover's Journal on Amazon for $11.94 The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest, deals, product reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
BY JEFFERSON GRAHAM Tuesday, April 23 How to game Instagram on less than $1,000 Social media's credibility took another hit this week with Mueller report, latest Facebook apology and new expose on how easy it is to game Instagram Think you can believe what you see on social media?
Ask Trey Ratcliff, Robert Mueller and Mark Zuckerberg about that.
All three pretty much confirmed the answer to the question this week.
The photographer Ratcliff released a new book in which he details how easy it was to create a fake Instagram account and game it with bought followers, likes and comments, in return for offers of cash, free trips and goods.
The book's title: Under the Influence How to Fake Your Way Into Getting Rich on Instagram: Influencer fraud, Selfies, Anxiety, Ego, and Mass Delusional Behavior.
Then the "Mueller Report," the look into possible Russian collusion during the 2016 presidential campaign, was finally released, albeit with redactions and It zeroed in on how the Russians played social media to sell their preferred candidate Donald Trump to the public, through false statements and reports.
And in the latest admission about things that were way worse than originally seemed, it emerged that Zuckerberg and his Facebook had stored "millions" of unencrypted Instagram users passwords on Facebook servers.
Facebook had originally said it was just "tens of thousands."
How safe is your personal information with the social network?
I think we know the answer.
But let's take a look at Instagram, the site of happy people who look beautiful, take great, expensive vacations, have lots of friends and lead a better life than you do, or so it seems.
The site is ripe with "influencers," people like the Kardashians, Zach King and Andrew Bachelor, whose sponsored posts usually showcases them with products in their hands.
According to Ratcliff, some $2 billion was spent on influencer marketing in 2017, a number he says will grow to $10 billion by 2020.
Ratcliff, himself a social media "influencer," with over 5 million followers, mostly from his popular Stuck in Customs blog, says Facebook and Instagram, which the social media titan owns, "create a false narrative that makes the rest of us feel like losers," so he set out to expose the "false narrative" in his book.
After showing how easy it is to buy followers, likes and comments from sites, Ratcliff is hopeful that Facebook will eventually see the light and clean up its act.
"Otherwise, we're sitting on top of this false economy where you can't believe anything you see, and people feel they don't add up," he says.
Instagram says that services that offer to boost an account's popularity via inauthentic likes, comments and followers "aren't allowed" and "we're developing technology to remove this activity from Instagram.
But clearly there's a cottage industry online to buy the fake followers and such, from companies such as Buzzoid ($39.99 for 5,000 followers"We will give you the likes and followers you deserve and help you grow your social presence!")
or Buzzdayz ($55 for 15,000 followers) Despite what happened with Ratcliff, and the offers of free products and travel for his fake account, on Medium writer Areej Younes points out that in the long run, the fake followers won't really help grow the channel.
"You are simply buying fake and empty likes.
There are no organic or real followers behind these accounts.
It is just a number.
Resorting to this tactic will ultimately keep you in the trap of buying likes for every piece of content you post because youre obviously going to keep up the image of popularity on your posts."
But clearly many people are doing it and getting away with it.
Is your life as happy and great looking as your friends on Instagram?
In other tech news this week.
Samsung: Arguably, the most innovative tech product of the year is the Samsung Fold, a new $1,980 phone that opens up into a tablet for the biggest smartphone screen we've seen to date.
There's only one little problem.
The phone is fragile, and has already been broken by reviewers from the likes of CNBCand The Verge.
This is less than three years after a scandal involving the thrice-recalled, and eventually discontinued, Galaxy Note 7 and its exploding batteries.
Making up: Amazon and Google dropped their cold war this week.
Google's YouTube will soon be available again on the Amazon Fire TV Stick and Amazon branded Fire TV Edition television sets, while Amazon Prime video will be accessible on the Google Chromecast streaming dongle and Android TVs.
Additionally, in the middle of a big lawsuit, Apple and chipmaker Qualcomm settled their spat, and now Qualcomm has agreed to make high-powered chips for upcoming Apple iPhones.
Samsung and LG have already announced that they are using Qualcomm's chips in their respective, upcoming Galaxy S10 5G and V50 ThinQ 5G phones.
In response to the Apple news, chip rival Intel said it would drop out of the 5G modem business.
More with Amazon and Google.
The companies, which make the popular Echo and Google Home speakers, announced free music deals for their customers.
Echo owners can now access free ad-supported music, and Google Home fans can get ad-free music from YouTube Music.
Google's deal goes a little further, in that the songs are available to any Google branded speaker, which includes the brands JBL, Sony and Harman.
Songs aren't available on-demand with Echo or Home, but instead you can listen to playlists and/or stations based on a request.
This week's Talking Tech podcasts That's a wrap for this week's Talking Tech newsletter.
We will be on vacation over the next weeks, and back in action again on 5/11.
In the meantime, you can still listen to the daily Talking Tech podcast (featuring guests hosts like Christine Blackburn, Rich DeMuro, Tim Bajarin and Shannah Compton Game) follow me on Twitter (see photos from Madrid and Lisbon) and check out my website.
CLOSE Here's a few need to know facts about April's Lyrid meteor shower.
USA TODAY It's time to put the phone away and head outside for some IRL fun.
The Lyrid meteor shower is coming to a sky near you both Sunday and Monday nights, though a bright moon may interfere with your sky watching.
The Lyrids appear each year from about April 16 to 25, according to Earthsky.org.
"In 2019, the peak of this shower which tends to come in a burst and usually lasts for less than a day is expected to fall on the morning of Tuesday April 23, under the light of a bright waning gibbous moon," Earthsky's Bruce McClure and Deborah Byrd said.
NASA's Bill Cooke told Space.com that the peak will be a day earlier: late Easter night and into early Monday.
So you hard-core meteor fans might want to keep an eye to the sky both Sunday night/Monday morning and Monday night/Tuesday morning.
Bright light from the moon, or from city lights, can wash out views of the dark night sky.
The Lyrids have been observed for more than 2,700 years, NASA said, making them one of the oldest known showers.
The first recorded sighting of a Lyrid meteor shower goes back to 687 B.C.
in China.
Observers there said the Lyrids were "falling like rain."
NASA's Cooke told Space.com that the average Lyrid shower produces 15 to 20 meteors per hour.
This year, the meteor shower may hit about 20 per hour.
The meteor shower sometimes bombards the sky with up to nearly 100 meteors per hour, which are known as outbursts.
Earthsky said that for example, in 1982, American observers saw an outburst of nearly 100 Lyrid meteors per hour.
Japanese observers saw around 100 meteors per hour in 1945, and Greek observers saw that number in 1922.
No Lyrid outburst is predicted for 2019, but you never know.
Lyrids are pieces of debris from the Comet C/1861 G1 Thatcher.
In mid-April of each year, Earth runs into the stream of debris from the comet, causing the meteor shower.
The Lyrids begin as tiny specks of dust that hit Earths atmosphere at 109,600 mph, vaporizing from friction with the air and leaving behind the streaks of light we call meteors, Astronomy magazine reported.
The meteors appear to emanate from the constellation Lyra the Harp, near the bright star Vega, which rises in late evening and passes nearly overhead shortly before dawn, the magazine said.
The Lyrids are known for their fast and bright meteors, NASA said, though not as fast or as plentiful as the famous Perseids in August.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2019/04/18/lyrid-meteor-shower-peaks-monday-tuesday-bright-moon-may-interfere/3483830002/
Listen to the Talking Tech podcast CLOSE Jefferson Graham offers tips on how to listen to the Talking Tech podcast via apps, speakers, TVs and the car.
USA TODAY The Talking Tech podcast is available for you every day with a quick hit on the latest tech news, gadget reviews, opinion on tech trends and interviews with insiders.
On this page, you'll find quick links to all of our shows.
In this file photo taken on September 7, 2016 The Apple logo is seen on the outside of Bill Graham Civic Auditorium before the start of an event in San Francisco, California.
(Photo: JOSH EDELSON, AFP/Getty Images) How to listen: You can hear #TalkingTech on: Stitcher (on both Apple and Android.)
Apple Podcasts (Apple devices only.)
Google Podcasts (Android devices only.)
Spotify or wherever you like to enjoy online audio.
Please rate and review the show on Apple Podcasts and "Favorite" us on Stitcher to help Talking Tech reach a wider audience.
For voice command on demand listening: We have a new Alexa/Talking Tech skill!
In the Alexa smartphone app (which you use to control the Amazon Echo speakers), you enable the Talking Tech Flash Briefing skill.
Open the app, go to Settings, and click on Flash Briefings.
From there, you can access search.
Just type in "Talking Tech" and then enable the skill.
Now, each morning, you can either say, "Alexa, play Talking Tech Flash Briefing," or "Alexa, play my Flash Briefing."
If you don't want the hassle, you can also on: iPhone/iPad: Say "Hey Siri, play Talking Tech with Jefferson Graham," and the show will directly come up via voice command.
Google Home connected speaker: Just say "Hey Google, play Talking Tech with Jefferson Graham."
Amazon Echo/Alexa: "Alexa, play USA TODAY Talking Tech podcast."
Follow USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham (@jeffersongraham) on Twitter, Instagram and YouTube.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2018/10/09/listen-talking-tech-podcast/1580909002/
The best fitness gear of 2019 The best fitness gear of 2019 (Photo: Reviewed) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA Todays newsroom and any business incentives.
Whether you're fulfilling a 2019 resolution or just looking to upgrade some old equipment, getting new fitness gear is always a good idea.
Whatever it is, it'll look good, feel good, work well and hopefully, you'll want to use it often.
It's finding the right gear for you that's the real challenge (other than getting up at 6 a.m. to actually workout) and it can be make-or-break on a resolution or routine.
You don't have the time to search through and test tons of products, but at Reviewed, we do.
While we haven't tested every product out there, we've got some great recommendations on the basics like foam rollers and earbuds that'll get you in the gym mood, so get motivated and moving with the best fitness gear of 2019.
The best fitness tracker: The Fitbit Charge 3 The best fitness gear of 2019: The Fitbit Charge 3 (Photo: Jackson Ruckar/Reviewed) We loved the Charge 3's predecessor the Charge 2 and so far, the new version has lived up to its billing.
The fitness tracker is perfect for anyone who's trying to get more active, or monitor their activity better and was named our top fitness tracker of many that we tested.
Fitbit's constant notifications to move, its massive battery life, its easy-to-use interface and app, and its community of users make it top-notch.
A great feature is that all of the stats on your watch sync to the Fitbit app, so you can track it on your phone as well.
The watch comes with both a small and large band, so sizing isn't a problem and since it's waterproof, it can do in a shower, pool or rainstorm with no problem.
The battery life is also excellent, lasting 10 days after its first charge and can support texts, calendars, weather updates and other reminders too.
One of our favorite parts, though, is the sleep tracking function which can help you monitor your sleep habits and try to improve them.
Get the Fitbit Charge 3 on Amazon for $149 The best earbuds for running/the gym: The JLab Audio Epic Sport wireless The best fitness gear of 2019: JLab wireless earbuds (Photo: Jackson Ruckar/Reviewed) The Epic Sport comes with JLab's signature bendable earhooks, multiple eartip sizes, and three types of cush fins to help the buds stay in place.
The inline controls consist of a streamlined remote with three buttons.
The audio can still sound a bit tinny and lacking in bass, especially if the fit isn't perfect, but JLab Audio has really gone the extra mile by building in three "sound profiles": one that augments vocals and bass, one that has a flat profile with no extra enhancements (best for those looking for studio-like audio), and one that boosts the bass notes.
With an IP66 rating (able to withstand both dust and "powerful water jets"), the Epic Sport should be able to withstand rigorous workouts.
Another high point is the satisfyingly long battery life which, in our experience, clocks in at over 12 hours.
The skinny wires may make it easy to break the headphones, so be sure to pack up these earbuds in their case when not in use.
Overall, we were impressed by the JLab Audio Epic Sport earbuds-especially their ability to connect from the first floor to a phone on the second floor.
A few customers didn't appreciate the proprietary charging cable (which cradles the remote and isn't merely a micro USB to USB cable), but we think that the Epic Sport is a solid choice whether you're walking in the woods or cranking through reps at the gym.
Get the JLab Audio Epic Sport earbuds from Walmart for $84.99 The best water bottle: The Hydro Flask standard mouth with flex cap The best fitness gear of 2019: Hydro Flask water bottle (Photo: Reviewed) The Hydro Flask checks off all of our boxes: Its portable, versatile, durable and well designed.
And it was the top performer by far during our temperature tests.
Ice deposited in the Hydro Flask one morning remained largely unmelted, well into the next day.
Its patented double-wall vacuum enables the bottle to hold cold and hot beverages and prevents condensation from forming on the outside, keeping it slip-free, and safe to store in bags alongside papers and laptops.
Though its often a caveat with stainless steel, the bottle didnt transmit any funky flavors to our water.
Its also crafted from recycled materials and comes with a lifetime guarantee (which definitely helps justify the price).
The only downside we found is it's not dishwasher safe.
The extra-wide mouth can fit any sized ice cube, and the bottle is compatible with a range of Hydro Flask caps, that lets you rotate between flex caps, sports caps, straw lids, flip lids and press-in lids, to suit your specific needs or activity.
Get the Hydro Flask on Amazon for $29.95 The best yoga mat: The Lululemon Reversible Mat 5mm The best fitness gear of 2019: Lululemon yoga mat (Photo: Lululemon) The surface may seem hard at first, but it actually has just the right amount of softness for comfort without any wobbling on the user's part.
It also boasts a completely flat, non-stick surface.
We could can firmly plant our hands and feet on the mat without slipping while switching poses or trying to hold a plank.
Its easy to wipe down after a workout, too, though it does take some time to fully dry.
And while it's a bit on the heavy side, it rolls small, which is great for portability.
The biggest downside is the steep price point.
So, we'd recommend this mat for either experienced or passionate yoga-goers, especially those who are going to stick with the sport.
If you do a lot of yoga or bodyweight workouts and want that barely there but still comfortable yoga mat feel, this is an awesome option.
Get the Lululemon Reversible Mat 5mm from Lululemon for $68 The best foam roller: The LuxFit Premium high density foam roller The best fitness gear of 2019: LuxFit foam roller (Photo: Amazon) Our personal favorite of the bunch is the LuxFit Premium High Density Foam Roller.
Not only is it incredibly simple to use, it works exceptionally well to massage out my sore muscles, as it's hard enough to be effective without being painful.
The roller also offers a great stabilizer for planks and an effective aid for pushups and yoga moves (for those who are interested in multi-purposing their roller).
So while it doesn't offer the deepest massage, going too deep isnt always what you want.
The LuxFit gives a worthy massage without inducing further pain, and we can see ourselves reaching for this one time and time again.
Get the LuxFit foam roller on Amazon for $23.95 For those running with a buddy: The best jogging stroller: The Graco FastAction fold jogger stroller The best fitness gear of 2019: Graco FastAction stroller (Photo: Graco) We tested this stroller and liked it for it's fast-action folding which, true to its name, breaks down the stroller very easily for storage and transport.
It's price point among jogging strollers was also a plus for us and Amazon buyers like it too as it's the No.
1 selling jogger on the site.
Get the Graco FastAction jogging stroller on Amazon for $99 The best dog leash: The Lead Mate and Leash combo The best fitness gear of 2019: Lead Mate leash (Photo: Jackson Ruckar/Reviewed) Designed specifically with arthritic or carpal tunnel-plagued owners in mind, the Lead Mate is an ergonomic attachment that ingeniously eliminates hazards that clutching at, tying knots in, or wrapping a leash around your wrist for greater control, can impose.
When simply clipped on the desired portion of the leash, the lightweight, no-slip spheremade of 100 percent recycled ABS plasticprovides superb grip and a thoroughly comfortable hand-hold, allowing walkers to effortlessly deal with pullers, and clearly transmit commands.
The Lead Mate can also be used to couple two leashes together for a double dog walk, fasten a leash around your waist for a hands-free jaunt or jog, or used as a tether, for securing a leash to a table at an outdoor cafe.
While you can purchase the Lead Mate with a 6-foot reflective nylon lead with padded neoprene handle, the Lead Mate attachment can be purchased separately and be used with any leashmagically transforming it into one pretty near perfect product.
And as if this werent already a strong enough sell for animal lovers, the company donates its products and 10 percent of all profits to animal shelters.
Several shelters were also involved with development and initial prototype testing.
The Lead Mate comes in five colors, and two models intended to fit either flat or rope leashes.
Get the Lead Mate and leash combo on Amazon from multiple sellers This article features excerpts of product reviews published on Reviewed.
To see thousands of other product reviews, check out Reviewed here.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/01/03/best-fitness-gear-2019-fitness-trackers-yoga-mats-earbuds-and-more/2466237002/
CLOSE 2018 was apparently the hottest year ever recorded for the world's oceans.
Buzz60 Story Highlights The benefit to richer countries may be temporary.
The world has warmed almost 2 degrees since the late 1800s.
Norway has been enriched while Nigeria has gotten poorer.
Global warming may be good for us, but not for them: Due in part to rising temperatures from human-caused climate change, the gap between the world's poorest and richest people has increased in the past half-century, a new study released Monday said.
Our results show that most of the poorest countries on Earth are considerably poorer than they would have been without global warming, said Stanford University climate scientist Noah Diffenbaugh, the lead author of the study published Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
At the same time, the majority of rich countries are richer than they would have been, he said.
Specifically, soaring temperatures have enriched cooler, wealthier countries such as Sweden, Canada and Norway while dragging down economic growth in warmer, economically shaky nations such as India and Nigeria, the study said.
Why is this?
"Crops are more productive, people are healthier and we are more productive at work when temperatures are neither too hot nor too cold, study co-author Marshall Burke, also of Stanford, explained.
This means that in cold countries, a little bit of warming can help.
The opposite is true in places that are already hot.
Indian boys walk through a dried patch of Chandola Lake in Ahmadabad, India, on May 14, 2016.
(Photo: Ajit Solanki, AP) According to the study, from 1961 to 2010, the average person in the worlds poorest countries saw their wealth drop by as much as 30%.
Global warming, aka climate change, occurs when fossil fuels such as oil and coal are burned.
The burning process releases greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide into our atmosphere, causing temperatures to rise to levels that cannot be due to natural causes.
More: 99.9999% chance humans are causing global warming, and other science-based facts on climate change for Earth Day Since the late 1800s, when fossil fuels began to be burned, the world's temperature has risen almost 2 degrees Fahrenheit.
Diffenbaugh said there's a 90% chance that this global warming has been a cause for the economic disparity between the top and bottom of Earth's population.
Coal-fired power plants such as the Homer City Generating Station in Pennsylvania emit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming.
(Photo: Keith Srakocic, AP) Any benefit to the world's richest countries from climate change is likely a temporary boost: A few of the largest economies are near the perfect temperature for economic output, Burke said.
But a large amount of warming in the future will push them further and further from the temperature optimum.
David Waskow of the World Resources Institute told CNN that "we can't assume that what's happening somewhere across the globe isn't going to have impacts in richer countries."
Speaking of how the world's poor are most vulnerable to global warming, he said that "to me, this is an indication of the way in which those who are on the front lines of the problem are being affected in ways that we should anticipate will spread."
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2019/04/22/global-warming-makes-worlds-rich-richer-and-poor-poorer/3541738002/
T-Mobile Money app and debit card.
(Photo: T-Mobile) T-Mobile is jumping into the banking business with a splash.
The wireless carrier on Thursday introduced a mobile checking account that offers an interest rate thousands of times higher than the national average.
Called T-Mobile Money, the new service has no minimum balance requirements and no monthly, overdraft, transfer or late-payment fees.
It also offers a potential 4% interest rate on balances up to $3,000 compared with the industry average of 0.06%.
After that, the rate is 1%.
T-Mobile is partnering with BankMobile, a division of Pennsylvania-based Customers Bank, on the new service.
The move comes after the self-proclaimed "un-carrier" recently announced plans to also take on home television and home broadband.
"We don't want to be a bank, we don't aspire to be a bank," Tiffany Minor, director of marketing for T-Mobile's financial services business, tells USA TODAY.
Minor says that BankMobile is handling "all the compliance" while T-Mobile is "delivering the customer experience in the wireless space."
Bank of Mom and Dad: Millennials still lean on parents for money, but want financial independence, survey says Get PAID here: Americas Highest Paying Companies Minor says in their discovery phase the two companies discovered that consumers "weren't getting anything" for their checking accounts, prompting them to create this venture and offer the 4% rate for T-Mobile customers.
"Whatever your acumen level is -- financially aware, financially astute -- you're like 'nobody offers that.'"
T-Mobile Money details The checking account is available to everyone, not just to T-Mobile's customers.
But the 4% rate and other perks are reserved for subscribers of one the carrier's postpaid plans, such as T-Mobile One or Simple Choice.
Banking customers also must deposit at least $200 into the account every month to get the 4% rate.
That higher rate equals an extra $120-a-year return on the $3,000.
That's not a lot, but for a family of three, that would currently cover a month of phone service on the T-Mobile One plan.
For non-customers and those on prepaid plans, the rate is 1% on the checking account balance, still nearly four times the average rate.
Interest on the money is paid out monthly.
New phone fail?
Some of Samsung's new Galaxy Fold folding phones are already breaking It is currently unclear what will happen for Sprint users if T-Mobile's planned $26 billion merger with the carrier goes through.
T-Mobile Money users have access to 55,000 free ATMs that are part of Allpoint's worldwide network that BankMobile uses.
A locator can be found in the app.
T-Mobile Money offers overdraft protection.
(Photo: T-Mobile) The checking service also will spot you up to $50 for one month if you overdraw your account called "Got your back."
You must pay back the overdrawn amount within 30 days or risk losing the feature.
It is also available only to postpaid T-Mobile wireless customers.
Other perks include a simplified to process to set up direct deposit, integration with Venmo, PayPal and the Cash app, and a handful of paper starter checks.
Users also receive a physical debit MasterCard.
Live customer support through BankMobile is available 24/7.
T-Mobile says that while you can use your T-Mobile Money debit card to pay your T-Mobile bill, the two accounts are not the same.
Minor says there is a "total separation" between Money and regular T-Mobile.
"We don't have transaction information, we don't know what your balances are.
T-Mobile doesn't have visibility to any of your personal banking information...
It is completely separate."
Fighting robocalls: T-Mobile, Comcast turn on call verification between networks in latest robocall fight More Money: Is paying for summer camp a challenge?
Here's how to cover it without breaking the bank More banking: Digital wallets could become more widely accepted under new Citigroup service Is T-Mobile checking worth it?
T-Mobile Money interest.
(Photo: T-Mobile) T-Mobile's foray into checking follows many others' attempts to break into the industry and lure customers from big banks by dangling no fees and higher interest rates on checking or savings accounts.
Like its predecessors, T-Mobile's move is unlikely to persuade larger banks to rethink their checking and savings offerings.
That's because all bank have been experiencing huge growth in deposits in the past five years, says Ron Shevlin, a director of research at Cornerstone Advisor, a banking consulting firm.
"The big banks feel no pressure to raise interest rates when deposits keep coming in droves," he says.
And while the 4% interest rate certainly distinguishes T-Mobile from the crowd, it may not necessarily be the best deal for consumers, Shevlin says.
For instance, if your bank offers debit card rewards rather than a higher interest rate, you need to compare the two.
"If youre running up $10,000 of debit card transactions and getting 1% to 2% back, that might be better than getting 4% back on $1,000 in balances you keep in your checking account," Shevlin says.
Alternatively, if your checking account balance is typically low say $300 to $400 you're not earning much from the interest.
It might make more sense to compare banks on other features.
Latest expansion efforts T-Mobile has been developing the program for two years, including a pilot it launched last year.
The expansion into financial services comes at a busy time for the nation's third-largest wireless provider.
In March, the company announced it would launch a pilot program in a bid to utilize its 4G LTE (and soon 5G) network to take on home broadband, while earlier this month T-Mobile said it would take on cable TV with its new TVision Home service.
T-Mobile TVision Home (Photo: T-Mobile) All this comes as the company continues its push to complete its merger with Sprint.
The companies may be encountering some government pushback.
A recent report from The Wall Street Journal said Justice Department lawyers told the companies that the deal likely won't be approved in its current structure.
More: T-Mobile-Sprint merger in trouble - WSJ In a tweet, T-Mobile CEO John Legere said the "premise" of the report was "untrue."
The premise of this story, as summarized in the first paragraph, is simply untrue.
Out of respect for the process, we have no further comment.
This continues to be our policy since we announced our merger last year.
https://t.co/3q9CVgkRfv key info: https://t.co/N5YvuuJtPZ John Legere (@JohnLegere) April 16, 2019 Follow Eli Blumenthal on Twitter @eliblumenthal.
Follow Janna Herron @jannaherron Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/2019/04/18/t-mobile-checking-account-offers-4-interest-and-no-fees/3495401002/
PlayStation 5: First details point to 8K graphics, faster performance, no release in 2019 Game enthusiasts and industry personnel visit the Sony Playstation exhibit.
(Photo: CHRISTIAN PETERSEN, Getty Images) Some of the first official details on Sony's highly anticipated next-generation PlayStation are finally coming out.
In a new interview with Wired, Mark Cerny, a lead system architect in Sony's PlayStation group, discussed the upcoming system.
Among the highlights: The new console will support higher resolution 8K displays, load games faster thanks to a switch from mechanical hard drives to faster solid-state storage (also known as SSDs), and deliver an improved audio experience.
The new console will be powered by AMD's latest Ryzen processing and Radeon Navi graphics chips.
In addition to 8K graphics, the Radeon GPU will also give the new PlayStation the ability to support ray tracing for more realistic light and shadows, which will result in much more accurate imagery in games.
AMD chips currently power the PlayStation 4.
Sony also revealed that the PlayStation 5 will be backward compatible with PS4 games.
Cerny told the magazine that the current PlayStation VR virtual reality headset will work with the next system, which will also still accept physical media (though it is unclear if that will be Blu-ray discs like the PS3 and PS4 or something else).
The graphics, combined with support for 3D audio, should bring added realism and immersion to the presumed PlayStation 5 (Sony has yet to formally reveal a name for the next PlayStation, but it's largely expected to call it the PlayStation 5).
Change your ID: Sony now lets gamers change PSN usernames Spring gaming: 'Mortal Kombat 11,' 'Final Fantasy XII' and more action video games of spring In addition to the upgraded graphics power, the upcoming console's switch to SSD should provide immediate impact when it comes to loading and playing games.
In a demo done for the magazine, fast-traveling as Spider-Man in "Marvel's Spider-Man" for PlayStation 4 took 15 seconds on a PlayStation 4 Pro and just 0.8 seconds on an early "low-speed" development kit version of the next generation PlayStation.
We still don't know what the new system will look like, its price or when exactly it might be released.
While Wired notes it won't be "landing in stores anytime in 2019," the magazine does describe how Sony has been accelerating its distribution of development versions to game developers to help them ready their new games for the system.
Follow Eli Blumenthal on Twitter @eliblumenthal More PS5: Talk of PS5 on the rise as Sony PlayStation 4 sales wane Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2019/04/16/ps-5-sonys-first-details-point-8-k-support-faster-performance/3483186002/
CLOSE Watch This Pack of Robot Dogs Pull a Truck Time A team of dog-like robots pull a massive truck down the street.
No this is not a new episode of "Black Mirror."
This is a video featuring the latest robot from Boston Dynamics, an American engineering and robotics design company.
The four-legged robot, named SpotMini, weighs about 66 pounds, can carry a payload of up to roughly 31 pounds and can run for as long as 90 minutes, depending on what it is doing.
In this case, ten SpotMini robots are show pulling a large delivery truck.
Previous videos have shown the SpotMini opening doors, running an obstacle course and dancing.
Additionally, the robot has perception sensors that "help with navigation and mobile manipulation," according to the product description on the company's website.
Boston Dynamics' SpotMini robot.
(Photo: Boston Dynamics) Boston Dynamics also noted that SpotMini "inherits the mobility of its bigger brother Spot," a robot the company previously released.
SpotMini is also nimble and is the quietest robot the company has ever built, according to the product description.
The robots will be "coming off the production line now and will be available for a range of applications soon," according to a YouTube video uploaded by Boston Dynamics.
CLOSE Details are scarce but it looks more agile, too.
Video provided by Newsy Newslook Tax reality: Did your taxes disappoint you this year?
Here's how to avoid a repeat next year Summer camp: Is paying for summer camp a challenge?
Here's how to cover it without breaking the bank Follow USA TODAY intern Ben Tobin on Twitter: @TobinBen Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/2019/04/17/boston-dynamics-spotmini-robot-dog-can-pull-more-than-its-weight/3494510002/
Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
Our picks and opinions are independent from any business incentives.
But its not the only worthwhile model on the market.
After many hours of testing, heres how a selection of the best plastic, glass and stainless-steel water bottles ranked, in order: Thanks to the Hydro Flask Double Wall Vacuum Insulated Sports Water Bottle ( available at Amazon )which we discovered is the best water bottle for everyday lifeit was easy to drink our recommended water intake each day without resorting to those wasteful plastic water bottles.
Its name says it all when it comes to its strengthskeeping our water refreshingly frosty and totally contained for 48 hours straight.
Were forever being urged to increase our water intake and stay hydrated, which makes purchasing the perfect reusable water bottle particularly consequential to our health.
Because whether were climbing mountains or quarantined in cubicles, these vessels are tasked with safeguarding a life-giving substance, assuring we have access to ice-cold, easy-to-sip, and perfectly-portable water anywhere we go.
Best Overall Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar Hydro Flask Standard Mouth with Flex Cap Where To Buy Click for price Amazon Buy $29.95 Walmart Buy $29.95 Moosejaw Buy Hydro Flask Standard Mouth with Flex Cap Best Overall The Hydro Flask checks off all of our boxes: Its portable, versatile, durable and well designed.
And it was the top performer by far during our temperature tests.
Ice deposited in the Hydro Flask one morning remained largely unmelted, well into the next day.
Its patented double-wall vacuum enables the bottle to hold cold and hot beverages and prevents condensation from forming on the outside, keeping it slip-free, and safe to store in bags alongside papers and laptops.
Though its often a caveat with stainless steel, the bottle didnt transmit any funky flavors to our water.
Its also crafted from recycled materials and comes with a lifetime guarantee (which definitely helps justify the price).
The only downside we found is it's not dishwasher safe.
The extra-wide mouth can fit any sized ice cube, and the bottle is compatible with a range of Hydro Flask caps, that lets you rotate between flex caps, sports caps, straw lids, flip lids and press-in lids, to suit your specific needs or activity.
A range of attractive colors further enhance customizability: Choose from mint, blueberry, flamingo, tangelo, graphite, plum, and more.
Best for the Outdoors Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar Yeti Rambler 26 Oz.
Bottle Where To Buy Click for price Amazon Buy $39.99 Abt Buy $39.99 Moosejaw Buy $39.99 Sportsman's Guide Buy Yeti Rambler 26 Oz.
Bottle Best for the Outdoors From a company well known for the durability and insulation of their coolers, sporting gear, and apparel, theres a reason the impenetrable Yeti Rambler scores top marks amongst outdoor enthusiasts.
It also topped all the tests we threw at it.
For starters, its made from kitchen-grade stainless steel thats puncture, dent, and rust resistant.
And it has a simple, cylindrical design free of unnecessary small parts, that are liable to get lost or break off (the cap even has magnetic docks, which keep it securely attached to the lid).
Double-walled insulation keeps the outside from getting hot or cold to the touch, or slippery with condensation, and allowed it to hold its own against the Hydro Flask during temperature tests.
Whether left in a hot car or kept on a bedside table overnight, water stored in the Rambler remained icicle cold; a good indicator of its usefulness during hiking or camping trips.
A leak-proof, easy to grip, three finger cap adds to its outdoor appeal, as does a generous, 26-ounce capacityenough to accommodate three lemonades, four mint juleps or one long chug of water, according to the company.
It also has an especially wide mouth, which facilitates sipping and cleaning (if youre not trekking through forests and fields, its also dishwasher safe).
On the other hand, the factors that make the Rambler ideal for sporty activities knock it down a peg in terms of everyday use, which is why we didn't name this our best overall.
The large size and robust materials make it undeniably heavy, quite bulky, and difficult to slip in car holders or bags (although Yeti makes smaller options, like the 18-ounce Rambler that might be a bit easier to handle).
Best Value Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar Brita Sport Water Bottle with Filter Where To Buy Click for price Amazon Buy $14.53 Walmart Buy $20.39 eBay Buy Brita Sport Water Bottle with Filter Best Value While (even BPA free) plastic can occasionally leach flavors and odors into water, Britas in-bottle filter is a bulwark against that.
And even when factoring in the cost of replacements, this environmentally-conscious option is wallet-friendly as well, as one filter stands in for approximately 300 disposable water bottlesor up to 40 gallons of waterand only requires swapping out once every two months.
The Britas soft squeeze body and easy sip sports top also make it great for using while biking, hiking, or any outdoor activity.
How We Tested The Tester My name is Sarah Zorn, and Im a professional food writer.
And frankly, my only healthy lifestyle choice is that I drink lots and lots and lots of water.
I generally have some on hand, whether Im tapping away at my computer, testing recipes in the kitchen, on my way to a meeting, or walking my dog.
And by keeping my water both accessible and chilled, the almighty bottle makes a big difference in my day.
The Tests To find the best water bottles, we first measured how long they kept their contents chilled over time; filling them with ice cubes and water, and checking their temperature after one and five hours.
We also determined if the bottle materials transmitted any off flavors to the water, after sitting for long periods.
Finally, we assessed ease of use based on numerous factors, such as, how easy the bottles were to open and close, how portable they were, how painless they were to clean, and if they had any special features that we found especially helpful (or even remotely functional).
Which Are the Best Water Bottles?
Plastic or Glass?
From the type of material to the style of the cap, water bottles can be customized to suit your specific needs.
Vacuum insulated stainless steel is almost unbeatable when it comes to keeping cool, but it is prone to denting if dropped and can leave a metallic taste.
Plasticlook for BPA free is lightweight, sturdy, inexpensive and easy to clean, which is why its a go-to pick for athletes.
But its not insulated and can give off flavors and smells.
Glass water bottles don't transmit off-tastes or odors (and may appeal to aesthetes), but its definitely heavier, costlier and more fragile, making it less than ideal when it comes to portability/durability.
Youll also want to consider quick access versus screw caps.
Push/pull designs can be simply flicked up with one hand, and actually provide some sort of straw or spout from which to drink from.
The other type needs to be actively undone with two hands, but are less prone to breaking, and are easier to disinfect and clean.
Other Water Bottles We Tested Klean Kanteen Insulated Wide with Loop Cap Where To Buy Click for price Amazon Buy $27.25 Vitamin Shoppe Buy Klean Kanteen Insulated Wide with Loop Cap Our second runner-up when it comes to temperature retention, Klean Kanteens Climate Lock insulation keeps drinks cold for up to two days (extra credit: it can be used for hot beverages, too).
A powder coat guards against slipperiness and condensation, and like the Hydro Flask, the Kanteen can fit different in-brand caps, from the leak-proof loop cap, which can be hooked on a bag with a D-ring, to the quick-twist cafe cap, allowing it to become a casual to-go mug.
CamelBak Eddy Where To Buy $12.49 Amazon Buy $15.00 Walmart Buy $11.97 Vitamin Shoppe Buy CamelBak Eddy Tired of tipping your water bottle at awkward angles in order to take a sip?
The sporty, durable CamelBak Eddy was designed with that recurring issue in mind and comes equipped with a straw you can flip with one hand, as well as a bite valve which provides faster flow.
It has decent temperature retention for a plastic bottle, is dishwasher safe, and comes with a lifetime guarantee, making it a cost-effective purchase.
Its forged from BPA-free materials, which is always a positive, and though we detected a slight flavor in the water, it wasnt overtly present or offensive.
Lifefactory with Straw Cap and Silicone Sleeve Where To Buy $21.24 Amazon Buy $20.15 Walmart Buy $25.47 Vitamin Shoppe Buy Lifefactory with Straw Cap and Silicone Sleeve As is the benefit of glass, water placed in the Lifefactory stayed odor- and flavor-free.
Although theres little in the way of insulation, so dont bank on long-term chillage.
Still, a wide mouth makes it easy to add ice cubes as needed, and a protective silicone sleeve shields your hands against the cold.
It also helps with gripping and presents a decent safety net in case the bottle drops.
All materials are BPA, BPS and phthalate-free, FDA approved and dishwasher safe, but keep in mind, the glass makes for a heavier than average bottle.
Thermos Intak Hydration Bottle with Rotating Intake Meter Where To Buy $12.48 Amazon Buy $14.28 Walmart Buy $13.53 eBay Buy Thermos Intak Hydration Bottle with Rotating Intake Meter Want to keep track of your water consumption?
The venerable Thermos has integrated a rotating meter into the lid of their bottle, which is surprisingly modern and sexy for such an old-school brand.
Not only is it comfortable to hold and easy to slip in bags and cup holders (thanks to an ergonomically designed body), and second nature to use (owing to a one-handed push up lid, locking ring and carry loop), its also quite a looker, courtesy of impact resistant co-polyester, in a dark blue, smoke or magenta finish.
Knocks against it are that the water warmed to room temperature after about an hour, and had a faint taste.
S'well Vacuum Insulated Bottle Where To Buy $28.50 Amazon Buy $26.00 eBay Buy S'well Vacuum Insulated Bottle The slim and streamlined Swell has triple-walled constructionit did a solid job of keeping our beverages cold (and the ability to keep hot beverages hot), even though we were only able to squeeze a few ice chips through the too-narrow mouth.
The copper layer helps eliminate condensation, and the trim shape lets it fit seamlessly into cup holders and bags.
It only comes with a twist cap, however, making it less than ideal for athletic use, and imparts a slight taste.
But do-gooders will appreciate Swells partnerships with charities, such as American Forests, BCRF and UNICEF.
Takeya Classic Glass Water Bottle with Silicone Sleeve and Twist Cap Where To Buy $14.50 Amazon Buy $14.49 Walmart Buy $15.27 Vitamin Shoppe Buy Takeya Classic Glass Water Bottle with Silicone Sleeve and Twist Cap If youre wary of potential toxic leaching from plastics, the lead-free Takeya is a solid option.
Its affordable and surprisingly portable, considering its made from weighty glass.
Its silicone sleeve offers protection against drips, slips and drops.
However, the water warmed quickly, even though the mouth accommodates standard ice cubes, and you cant manipulate the cap one-handed, due to its twist-off top.
Vapur Element Wide Mouth Anti-Bottle Where To Buy $11.11 Amazon Buy $13.99 Walmart Buy $13.99 eBay Buy Vapur Element Wide Mouth Anti-Bottle This collapsible bottle is all about portability.
Made from dishwasher-safe BPA-free 3-ply material, its both foldable and flexible.
And though the mouth isnt big enough to take ice cubes, it can be filled with water, frozen, and used throughout the day, or rolled up and stashed.
Since its not rigid, however, its not exactly meant to be propped on a desk, and since theres no guard against condensation (and being that its essentially an ice pack), wed be wary of storing it with anything youd hate to get wet.
Nalgene Tritan Wide Mouth Silo Where To Buy $12.00 Amazon Buy $13.79 Walmart Buy $11.47 Vitamin Shoppe Buy Nalgene Tritan Wide Mouth Silo If more is more to you when it comes to water, you cant beat the large capacity Nalgene, which holds 1.5 liters inside of its BPA-free, volume graduation-marked body, with an extra-large mouth for cramming in cubes.
But youll be lugging around some serious weight and bulk; one that doesnt fit into your standard cup holder.
And besides sheer size, there are no other special features of note: Our water warmed almost instantly, and the twist off cap with flimsy plastic loop make it a pain to carry, and not exactly effortless to use.
Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
Our picks and opinions are independent from any business incentives.
NOTE: This list is comprised of electric dryers, but you'll find a link to our review of each dryer's gas counterpart (where available) below.
Though gas dryers tend to be more efficient, in general, gas and electric versions of the same product should function and perform identically.
Here are all the dryers that we think are the best in ranked order: We looked over the data of every dryer we've tested and picked the top 10.
Among those, the crme de la crme is the Electrolux EFME627UTT ( available at AppliancesConnection for $1,073.00 ).
The EFME627UTT aced all of our tests while looking good.
Over the years, hundreds of dryers have passed through our labs.
When we test, we're looking at these machines from every angle.
The chief concern: Can the dryer get clothes dry in a timely manner without damaging them?
Next, we test extra features like steam or smart connectivity.
Finally, we analyze the fit and finish.
The very best dryers have sturdy doors, drum lights, and easy-to-read buttons.
While dryers are typically sold with accompanying washers, it's not a rule that needs to be followed.
For those of us who have laundry machines hidden away in garages or basements, having a matching pair isn't that important, opening up the opportunity to get the best version of each.
Best Overall Credit: Electrolux Electrolux EFME627UTT Where To Buy $1,073.00 AppliancesConnection Buy $1,079.10 Home Depot Buy $1,079.00 Abt Buy Electrolux EFME627UTT The Electrolux EFME627UTT dryer is great-looking, has simple controls, and is rich with cycles and options, including Perfect Steam, which can help to relax wrinkles away.
Its Quick Dry cycle completes in a mere 15 minutes.
Though the Normal cycle is slow, the Heavy cycle takes only an hour.
As the counterpart to the stellar Electrolux EFLS627UTT washing machine that has a spot in the detergent drawer for laundry pods, this dryer is another great addition to the Electrolux laundry family.
What to consider when purchasing a dryer Whether its an emergency replacement, or youre just looking to change up your laundry room, there are a few things you should consider when you purchase a new dryer.
Space Before you head out to the stores, be sure you know the size constraints needed for your dryer.
Were not just talking about the width of the space you have in your laundry room for the dryer itself (although thats definitely important).
Are the doorways in your home wide enough for a dryer to fit through during delivery?
Will it be able to fit down narrow or tight stair cases?
Take a tape measure and check the doorway width against the dryers specs, and make sure you have a few inches of clearance.
Capacity Most dryers have capacities ranging from 7.3 to 7.5 cu.
ft., which is enough to deal with the laundry that can fit in most washing machines.
However, if you have a high-capacity washing machine (5.0 cu.
ft. capacity or greater), youll need a dryer that can keep up with the bigger laundry loads, typically one with a capacity on the order of 8.0 cu.
ft. or greater.
Otherwise, your dryer may struggle to dry large laundry loads in a single dryer cycle.
Price Keep your budget constraints in mind.
Dryer prices can run the gamut, from $500 to $2,000 or more, but most tend to sit in the $800 to $1,200 range.
We have recommendations for some dryers with very low prices, but you can generally find great dryers at any price point; it just takes a little bit of research, and figuring out which features and design aesthetics you can live without.
Also, if you can afford to wait, most appliance manufacturers and retailers tend to offer steep discounts around major holidays; vigilantly searching for deals can save you hundreds of dollars.
Customization/Extra Cycles How picky are you about your dryer cycles?
Do you want to be able to set specific cycle temperatures, drying levels, and cycle duration, or would you prefer to just hit two buttons and start drying?
Do you want a cycle just for denim jeans?
Really consider how you do laundry on a day-to-day basis.
If you prefer a straightforward drying process, youll probably want to buy a lower-tech dryer.
Even if that extra customization seems appealing, it may not make sense for you to buy that kind of dryer if youre not going to actually use those extra features regularly.
Steam Are you considering a dryer with steam?
Steam is an easy and effective way to reduce wrinkles, remove stale smells, and refresh clothing.
However, if the dryer youre eyeballing has steam, be sure to find out exactly how the dryer gets the water needed to create that steam.
Most dryers will require access to an additional water line, but some dryers have a drawer where you can manually add water.
If you dont have that necessary water hookup, you may pay extra for a feature you cant actually use.
Door Based on your laundry room configuration, which way should the dryer door open?
If the opening direction doesnt work in your laundry space, dont worry, almost all dryer doors are reversible; all youll need is a screwdriver and some elbow grease.
Its such a minor thing, but if you dont think about it beforehand, it can be frustrating when you go to use your shiny new dryer for the first time and you cant open the door all the way.
How We Test Every dryer that comes into Revieweds labs gets put through the same testing regime, which addresses both performance and user-friendliness.
Performance tests include: Drying performance How much water does each major dryer cycle actually remove from your clothes, and how quickly can it achieve that level of dryness?
Maximum temperature We record the maximum temperature in each dryer cycle.
Some like it hot, but if dryer temperatures get too hot, it could damage your clothes.
Credit: Reviewed.com / Julia MacDougall We wrap a temperature reader in a sock and throw it in with a dryer load to see how hot the dryer actually gets on each cycle.
The best dryers completely dry your clothes at a temperature that is hot (140F-150F), but not too hot (lest your clothes be scorched or damaged), and have short cycle times.
Beyond these performance tests, we also assess the usability of each dryer, based on our experience, both during testing and during more casual use (one perk of working at Reviewed is that there is plenty of laundry machines on premises!).
Our main goal is to get the answer to one question: How easy is it to actually use this dryer?
This involves cumulatively assessing the control panel, the door, the vent, and any smart features that are included.
By combining the performance data with our own observations, we can make the solid recommendations for someone looking for any type of dryer at any price point.
LG DLEX9000V Where To Buy $1,615.10 AppliancesConnection Buy $1,619.10 Home Depot Buy $1,619.99 Best Buy Buy LG DLEX9000V The LG DLEX9000V isn't just gorgeousit works better than most dryers we've tested.
It doesn't come cheap, but it rocks best-in-class features, including steam cycles and a massive drum.
With a veritable cornucopia of wash cycle options and features, this dryer can easily deal with a variety of fabric types and items sizesit has no trouble with big items like comforters, and gets shirts wrinkle-free.
Even though it's a big investment, we say its performance justifies the cost.
Whirlpool WED7500GC Where To Buy $894.10 AppliancesConnection Buy $899.10 Home Depot Buy $899.99 Best Buy Buy $899.00 Abt Buy Whirlpool WED7500GC The Whirlpool WED7500GC dryer works speedily and gently to dry clothes.
The intuitive touch control panel presents choices on the left for what to dry, and choices on the right for how to dry.
We ran a Normal and Cotton cycle, and it almost completely dried every bit of laundry in that load in an astonishingly short 38 minutes.
You can customize the drying for each load, but you don't need to be a laundry expert to get completely dry clothes from this dryer.
Even if you are a laundry expert, you will still appreciate the clear, easy-to-use interface.
Maytag Bravos XL MEDB835DW Where To Buy $894.10 AppliancesConnection Buy $899.10 Home Depot Buy $899.99 Best Buy Buy $899.00 Abt Buy Maytag Bravos XL MEDB835DW The best word to describe the Maytag Bravos XL MEDB835DW is "reasonable."
It's reasonably priced and it dries clothes reasonably well.
While the Rapid Dry only worked on a small laundry load, and the Bedding cycle wasn't as effective as we hoped, the Normal cycle was able to completely dry a normal laundry load in about 50 minutes.
As long as you stick with the normal cycle, this 8.8-cu.-ft. capacity dryer will help you turn laundry day into laundry hour.
Samsung DVE54M8750V Where To Buy $898.70 AppliancesConnection Buy $898.20 Home Depot Buy $899.99 Best Buy Buy $899.00 Abt Buy Samsung DVE54M8750V If you clean your clothes in a big washer, the Samsung DVE54M8750V has the room to dry it all.
Our king size comforter came out 99 percent dry in only 46 minutes, which is among the fastest and best performing Bedding cycles we've seen.
This dryer is really customizableyou can build your own My Cycle, in which you can set cycle times, temperatures, and drying levels.
For those of you who want fine control over each cycle, his dryer has a bevy of steam, temperature, and timing options.
Electrolux EFME527UTT Where To Buy $983.00 AppliancesConnection Buy $989.10 Home Depot Buy $989.00 Abt Buy Electrolux EFME527UTT The Electrolux EFME527UTT dryer is great-looking, easy to control, and full of cycles and options.
Like the Electrolux EFME627UTT, it has Perfect Steam, which is powered by its built-in water heater to maximize hot water temperatures for sanitizing, wrinkle removal, and odor removal.
Its Quick Dry cycle finishes in a mere 18 minutes, though not every cycle is as speedy.
This dryer is a worthy counterpart to the Electrolux EFLS527UTT washing machine, which has a spot in the detergent drawer for laundry pods.
Maytag MEDC465HW Where To Buy $624.10 AppliancesConnection Buy $629.99 Best Buy Buy $629.00 Abt Buy Maytag MEDC465HW The Maytag MEDC465HW dryer is a basic dryer with old-school aesthetics that gets the job done right the first time.
While you may not get the frills and extra features found on some of the more expensive dryers, this Maytag's Normal cycle can get your laundry 100 percent dry in a mere 53 minutes.
The dryer's interface, comprised of four knobs, is streamlined and easy to operate, even if you're still a laundry novice.
If you want top-notch dryer performance on a budget, the Maytag MEDC465HW is for you.
Maytag MEDB955FC Where To Buy $1,254.10 AppliancesConnection Buy $1,259.10 Home Depot Buy $1,259.99 Best Buy Buy Maytag MEDB955FC For families that generate a lot of laundry, the Maytag MEDB955FC dryer has the room for it.
With its 9.2-cu.-ft. capacity, there's plenty of room for you to put in your king size comforters; the best part is that they come out totally dry and fluffy.
Admittedly, the cycle times are on the longer side: The Normal cycle took about an hour and 40 minutes, while the Bedding cycle that dried that comforter was only a few minutes shorter.
Rapid Dry, though, is a real treat, and almost completely dried a small load of laundry in 14 minutes, which is nothing to sneeze at.
With its recessed door handle, magnetic door, and big, easy-to-read control dials, the Maytag MEDB955FC is designed to be easily operated with one hand, presumably while you shepherd kids or pets around with the other hand.
LG DLE7300WE Where To Buy $744.80 AppliancesConnection Buy $749.00 Abt Buy LG DLE7300WE As far as dryers go, the LG DLE7300WE is a workhorse.
it gets the job done, but with little finesse.
During testing, our sensors picked temperatures north of 160F, which can prematurely damage clothes over time.
However, the upside is that the DLE7300WE got our wet test load of laundry into a ready-to-wear state, removing 99 percent of all moisture consistently.
We also liked the fact that this dryer has LG's EasyLoad feature.
Basically, the door has two sets of hinges so it can swing open left to right or open and down depending if you're loading or unloading the dryer.
In the end, the relatively steep price and way-too-hot temperatures prevented the LG DLE7300WE from claiming a top spot.
LG DLE3500W Where To Buy $695.30 AppliancesConnection Buy $698.40 Home Depot Buy $699.99 Best Buy Buy $699.00 Abt Buy LG DLE3500W The LG DLE3500W is a hot dryer that gets wet laundry fully dry.
Between its 7.4-cu.-ft. size and its cycle versatility, it'll get you through laundry day faster.
With all the basic cycles (no steam here), you can easily customize the care of each load of wet clothes.
The Speed cycle finishes up in a mere 25 minutes.
Our main concern about this dryer is its tendency to run very hot, especially on the Normal cycle, which maxed out at 166F (most dryers tend to stay at or below 150F).
While that may cause more wear and tear on your clothes in the long run, its not a day-to-day problem and in the meantime, it helps to ensure that the clothes dry well.
Happily, you can use the control panel to turn down the cycle temperature, so you can still get rapid drying that won't wear out your clothes.
Related articles The Best Washers The Best Dryers for Large Families The Best Dryers with Steam
Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
Our picks and opinions are independent from any business incentives.
If you're shopping for a high-performance, top-tier TV, OLEDs should be on your radar.
For a while, LG was the only company producing OLED TVs for a broad consumer market.
And although consumers in 2019 have the option of getting competitively priced OLED TVs from Sony or Panasonic, LG remains the most prolificand arguably the bestmanufacturer of these stunning displays.
You don't even need to go that far back to see evidence of LG's OLED-powered dominance.
In 2018, for instance, the LG C8 was the best TV we saw all year.
Skip ahead a year, and the C8's follow-up is shaping up to be the best TV of 2019.
That TV, the C9 (available at Best Buy for $3,499.99), is one of the company's more affordable OLED offerings, and it excels in almost every measurable wayfrom its spectacular picture to its extra-wide viewing angles.
While it's true that you can stretch your dollar with bigger, more affordable 4K LED TVs, few will come close to the C9's exceptional performance, particularly in dedicated home theater settings.
The bottom line?
There are craftier ways to spend your money on a great TV, but if you want a near-perfect one, the LG C9 is the way to go.
About the LG C9 OLED TV Series Credit: Reviewed / Michael Desjardin The LG C9 is available in three sizes: 55 inches, 65 inches, and 77 inches.
Our's is a 65-inch model, but we expect all three variants will perform similarly.
The LG C9 is available in three sizes.
For most people, the 55- or 65-inch C9 will be plenty big, but for folks who might be in the market for a truly gargantuan TV experience, LG is also offering a pricy, 77-inch version of the C9.
55-inch (LG OLED55C9PUA), MSRP $2,499.99 65-inch (LG OLED65C9PUA), MSRP $3,499.99 77-inch (LG OLED77C9PUA), MSRP $6,999.99 Especially for OLEDs, the different sizes of TVs in a series tend to perform identically to one another.
The only noteworthy difference between each of the C9 models is screen size.
Here's a rundown of what you're getting from each LG C9 TV: 4K (3,840 x 2,160) resolution Supports High Dynamic Range (HDR10, Dolby Vision, and Dolby Atmos) Native 120 Hz refresh rate LG webOS smart platform DCI-P3/10-bit color space LG ThinQ AI functionality (with Alexa and Google Assistant) a9 processor (second generation) Credit: Reviewed / Michael Desjardin The C9 aced its contrast tests, performing spectacularly in both SDR and HDR.
Before testing each TV, we make sure the panel is on and receiving a continuous signal for at least 24 hours, allowing the pixels plenty of time to warm up.
All of the SDR tests were carried out in LG's "ISF Expert (Bright Room)" picture setting.
For HDR tests, our chosen picture setting was "Cinema Home."
I'll expand on our test results throughout the review, but for now, here are some key takeaways: Performance Data HDR contrast (brightness/black level): 212.7 nits/0.002 nits SDR contrast (brightness/black level): 266.3 nits/0.002 nits HDR peak brightness: 714.6 nits (20%) HDR color gamut coverage: 97% (DCI-P3/10-bit) SDR color gamut coverage: 97% (Rec.709) Connectivity When it comes to ports, the LG C9 is loaded for bear.
Here's what you'll see when you take a trip around the back of the C9's panel: 4x HDMI 2.0 (1x ARC) 3x USB 3.0 Component, LAN ethernet port, RF input, optical audio output Credit: Reviewed / Michael Desjardin Included with the C9 is LG's Magic Remote, which features motion control.
What We Like OLED TVs offer the best picture money can buy If you've never seen an OLED TV up close, it can be hard to grasp what people are getting at when they talk about the tech's absolutely stunning contrast.
Each one of the C9's 8,294,400 total pixels is self-illuminating, so the display doesn't rely on a backlight.
This means that, while non-OLED TVs are forced to render a dark, nighttime sky with anywhere from one to a few hundred separate light sources, an OLED has millions of light sources working together at any given moment.
As you can probably imagine, a dark, nighttime sky on an OLED is a hell of a lot darker than the exact same image on a non-OLED TV.
To put it another way, when an OLED TV is on and displaying an 100% black image, it looks indistinguishable from its state when the power's off.
Credit: Reviewed / Michael Desjardin OLED displays are unmatched when it comes to contrastthese TVs are capable of pure black levels that can't quite be reached on traditional LED TVs.
But it's not just a matter of darkness: With this level of contrast, every scene looks better, whether you're looking at a bright, sunny beach or the bleak, vastness of space.
Colors, too, look better with an OLED's so-called infinite contrast, and because there isn't a backlight constantly flooding the picture, colors tend to look more vivid.
The LG C9 is demonstrates the magic of OLED better than my wordy descriptions ever couldbetter than any TV I've seen to date.
Predictably, it aced all of our tests, delivering world-class performance in both SDR (standard dynamic range) and HDR (high dynamic range).
Credit: Reviewed / Michael Desjardin The C9's extra-wide color gamut (combined with an OLED's natural ability to produce vivid colors) will make pops of color more pronounced.
It's true that contemporary OLED panels don't get as bright as some of their high-end, non-OLED competitorsand more on that laterbut even the LG C9's measured peak HDR brightness of around 700-750 nits is plenty bright when contrasted with a black level of, essentially, zero nits.
HDR content on the C9, therefore, looks immaculate.
When it comes to content mastered in SDR, you can expect more of the same: modest brightness coupled with inky, rich black levels deep enough to give those highlights an added pop.
The C9 also covers about 97% of the expanded DCI-P3/10-bit color spacesomething to hang your hat on while you're watching bright, colorful content dance across your screen.
We still love LG's smart platform I cannot recall a time where LG's webOS smart platformand the company's software on the wholefailed to impress us.
In 2019, I remain impressed.
Thanks to some nifty design and a powerful processing chip, the C9's clean, well-organized menus zip along with grace.
Jumping from HDMI inputs to preloaded streaming apps like Netflix is a simple task, whether you're using the point-and-click feature of LG's motion-guided "Magic Remote" or simply clicking away on the remote's directional pad.
Credit: Reviewed / Michael Desjardin LG's webOS smart platform is clean, zippy, and easy to navigate.
Cinephiles will appreciate the breadth of calibration options should they decide to get their fingers greasy under the hood, and casual users will no doubt feel comfortable putting the C9 in one of LG's preset picture settings, not needing to worry about further maintenance down the road.
In addition to boasting a bevy of built-in apps right out of the box, the LG C9 also features Alexa and Google Assistant support, provided you've installed the proper firmware updates.
Ultra-smooth motion and ultra-wide viewing angles Whenever I'm doling out TV recommendations to friends and family, I often get two questions: "how's the motion?"
and "how's the viewing angle?"
Nearly everyone, it seems, has had the misfortune of wincing at a TV with awful motion or a TV with too-narrow of a viewing angle.
On the whole, its probably easier to acclimate yourself to a TV with a wonky color temperature than it is to acclimate your eyes to bad motion or narrow viewing options.
Fortunately, OLED TVs excel in these two areas in particular, given the nature of the technology itself.
Credit: Reviewed / Michael Desjardin As we've come to expect from OLED TVs, the LG C9 sports an ultra-wide viewing anglethe picture holds up exceptionally during off-angle viewing.
Like nearly every OLED TV we've tested, the LG C9 is capable of viewing angles that are far wider than typical LED TVsan important distinction for big-screen TVs meant to accommodate a room full of people.
In fact, the C9 holds up so well during off-angle viewing that you practically need to be standing directly at its side in order for your eyes to notice a serious drop in contrast quality.
Similarly, if you've been burned by bad motion in the past, you'll be thrilled to know that the C9's native 120Hz refresh rate delivers judder-free, silky-smooth motion handling without the need of uncanny motion-smoothing software.
What We Don't Like It doesn't get as bright as some of its high-end competitors As I touched on earlier in the review, the C9 met our expectations when it comes to peak brightness: Like most high-end OLED TVs, it gets bright enough for most conditions, but not nearly as bright as some of its high-end, non-OLED competitors.
If you've got a dedicated home theater set-up, you needn't worrythis TV will be plenty bright in dim or dark rooms.
If you're planning on setting up your new TV in a room that gets a good amount of sunlight, however, you might want to consider a TV with a higher peak-brightness ceiling.
Credit: Reviewed / Michael Desjardin The C9 is one of LG's most affordable OLED TVs of 2019, but it still doesn't come cheap.
If you want to stretch your dollar, there are other high-end TVs that offer more bang for your buck.
Unfortunately, they're probably not as good as the C9.
OLED TVs are still too pricey for most people Although OLED displays have steadily dropped in price over the last several years, they remain a pricey proposition for most of us.
Today, you could conceivably land yourself a 55- to 65-inch 4K TV for far less than half the price of the C9and there's a good chance it would perform dutifully for years to come.
Even the 75" version of the impressive Vizio P-Serieswhich gets significantly brighter than the LG C9is priced well below the 55-inch version of the latter.
With the C9, you're paying a premium for performance, and it's ultimately up to you to decide whether it's worth cutting a few corners in order to save some money.
Should You Buy It?
Yesif you have the means, it's the best TV money can buy right now.
In 2017, the LG C7 was the best TV we tested.
In 2018, it was the LG C8.
As of now, it looks as though the LG C9 will end up being our #1 TV of 2019.
While there might be TVs that technically outperform it, you're going to struggle to find them for under $5,000.
There are some drawbacks to mention, but they're inherent to OLED, not to the C9 in particular.
First, while the 55- and 65-inch C9 TVs are priced competitively, the 77-inch model (at $7,000) is quite a bit more expensive than comparable top-tier LED/LCD TVs in the same size.
If you're more concerned about size than anything, you could save a few thousand dollars by buying an LCD TV.
Likewise, if you really want intense brightness and saturated colors, you might want to shop around for some of this year's quantum dot-equipped sets (we'll have reviews as those TVs hit shelves).
That said, there's nothing quite like the deep, mind-bending black levels and picture-perfect color production of an OLED display, and the C9 is undoubtedly one of the most affordable ways to start living the OLED lifestyle in 2019.
We're unlikely to see a better TV for a better price this year.
The best meat thermometer is at its lowest pricefor now Get an incredible price on a meat thermometer for grilling season.
(Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
If youre a frequent meat eater, you know the absolute horror of cutting into grilled steak only to find its undercooked (or worse, overdone).
Thats why a good digital meat thermometer is so essential, especially with grilling season fast approaching.
If you really care about impressing guests at your barbecues this summer, youre going to want a meat thermometer thats both accurate and speedy, and you dont even have to spend too much to get an incredible one.
Right now, the best meat thermometer weve ever tested is back down to the lowest price weve ever seenas long as you buy more than one.
The ThermoWorks ThermoPop (say that five times fast) typically costs $34, but if you get two or more, theyre only $25 each from ThermoWorks.
Until now, the biggest discount we have ever seen was a $5 drop to $29 for a single thermometer, and though you have to get at last two for this price, we think it's more than worth it.
You can get one for yourself and give another to a loved one, or stash one in a kitchen cabinet and one by your grill for easy access no matter where you're cooking.
Heck, you could even buy a few and stash them away as gifts for birthdays and holidays.
Though you might want to give your extras away sooner than laterit is grilling season after all.
After testing the ThermoPop, we found that not only was it fast at reading temperatures (it only took three seconds!
), but it was also extremely accurate and its long probe and backlight made it easy to see the temperature.
We also love the sleek, fun look of this thermometer and how the display rotates 360 degrees so you can get the temperature readout without craning your neck over a hot grill.
It also comes in a ton of fun colors and celebrity chefs and cooking personalities like Vice's Matty Matheson rely on ThermoWorks thermometers when they cook, so you will definitely look like a pro at your next cookout with one of these on your side.
This awesome sale is only for a limited time, so if you know a few grilling enthusiasts, this sale may be the perfect way to get everyone the digital thermometer they deserve.
The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest, deals, product reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/04/22/thermoworks-thermopop-best-meat-thermometer-its-lowest-price/39378941/
The best credit cards if you love traveling but hate flying If you prefer trains over planes, you can still save with the right credit cards.
(Photo: Getty Images / Maria Sbytova) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you sign up for a credit card after clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
Flying is a great option for many travelers, but it isnt for everyone.
Ground transportation can sometimes save you time, money, and frustration, and a car or train might be the best choice for your trip.
Yet many travel credit cards offer rewards in airline miles or airport lounge access, which arent worth a thing if you want to avoid airports in the first place.
So, if you dont like to fly, you may have written off travel credit cards completely, but you should reevaluate that stance.
There are credit cards available that offer benefits you'll use without having to head up in the air, like savings on train tickets and cash back on gas purchases.
Others, like the Chase Sapphire Preferred Cardour Best Overall choiceoffer smart ways to redeem points and earn cash back.
Im a travel writer who has been writing about credit cards for the last six years and studying card benefits for many years longer, so I know this space well.
While there are fewer travel credit cards that specialize in trains, cruises, and other terrestrial modes of transportation, the ones that do can offer substantial rewards.
And there are also some more general credit cards that offer flexible rewards currencies that can be used for hotels, cruises, car rentals and even a flight or two if you have to fly.
If you want to travel and youre not a big fan of flying, these six choices could be the best credit cards for you.
Chase Sapphire Preferred Best Overall The Chase Sapphire Preferred has been a favorite travel credit card for its great benefits and flexible points since it was introduced in 2009.
Points earned through the card can be used for all kinds of travel redemptions including hotel stays, cruises, car rentals, and even flights.
This card has a $95 annual fee.
Points: Chase created a proprietary reward system called Ultimate Reward points and the more money you spend on your card, the more Ultimate Rewards points youll receive.
The Sapphire Preferred card offers 2 Ultimate Rewards points per dollar spent on all travel and dining purchases and 1 Ultimate Reward point per dollar spent on everything else.
Ultimate Rewards points can then be used to book hotels, cruises, car rentals, vacation rentals, and more directly through Chases travel portal at a rate of 1.25 cents per point ($0.0125).
For additional flexibility, points can also be transferred to Ultimate Rewards partners.
Most Ultimate Rewards transfer partners are airlines, but you can also transfer your points to rewards programs from hotel chains like Hyatt, InterContinental Hotels Group, and Marriott.
If you just want the cash back, Ultimate Rewards points can be redeemed for cash at a rate of 1 point for $0.01.
Perks: The Chase Sapphire Preferred has many great benefits in addition to how flexible the points are.
It offers primary car rental insurance coverage, meaning if something happens to your rental car you wont have to make a claim to your own insurance policy first.
It also doesnt charge foreign transaction fees for any trips you make abroad and offers purchase protection and extended warranty protection.
Learn more about the Chase Sapphire Preferred card Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express Best for Car Travel If you dont like to fly, theres a good chance youll end up driving to your destination.
If you do, then a card that rewards you for gasoline purchases is a solid choice.
My top pick for a gas card is the Blue Cash Preferred Card.
This is a cash back card with a $95 annual fee.
Points: The Blue Cash Preferred Card gives you 3% cash back on any money spent at gas stations.
Youll also earn 6% cash back on the first $6,000 per year on spending at grocery stores (and then 1% at grocery stores after $6,000), and 1% cash back on all other purchases.
Perks: The Blue Cash Preferred Card doesnt have many additional perks, but it does offer an introductory 0% APR on purchases and balance transfers for the first 12 months.
After the introductory APR period, the interest rate will be increased to 15.24%-26.24% based on your creditworthiness.
It also offers secondary car rental loss and damage insurance; secondary means that you must first make a claim to your own car insurance policy.
Learn more about the Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express Amtrak Guest Rewards World Mastercard Best for Train Travel If youd much rather travel by train than plane, and youre planning on traveling within the United States, youll be on Amtrak.
While there are two Amtrak-branded cards to choose, we recommend the Amtrak Guest Rewards World Mastercard.
This card has a $79 annual fee.
Points: As far as earning points goes, youll get 3 Amtrak Guest Rewards points per dollar spent on purchases with Amtrak and 2 Amtrak points per dollar spent on all other travel purchases.
Purchases that arent travel related will earn 1 Amtrak point per dollar spent.
And the Amtrak Card doesnt have foreign transaction fees, so if your travels take you to places beyond Amtraks reach, you can still earn points towards future trips.
Perks: The Amtrak Card comes with a few nice perks.
When you open your account, youll get a complimentary Companion Coupon, which means you can have two people travel on the same train for the price of one.
The Companion Coupon is valid for a free companion rail fare with purchase of a regular adult rail fare, that is valid on both one-way and round-trip Amtrak tickets.
There are a few blackout dates for the coupon, but it is overall pretty easy to redeem and can offer fantastic value.
Youll also be able to upgrade to a higher class ticket and get one free pass to an Amtrak lounge when youre traveling on a regional train.
(Interested in international train travel?
Take a look at the Barclaycard Arrival Plus below.)
Learn more about the Amtrak Guest Rewards World Mastercard How We Evaluated Because Ive been traveling for years, I know what benefits travelers will need and use.
To examine cards for surface-based travel, I looked at major credit cards that are co-branded with cruises and trains as well as cards that offer flexible points that can be used for different types of travel-related redemptions other than flying.
The best cards were chosen based on the value of rewards (both points and perks), fees, and general accessibility.
Things To Know About Credit Cards Most of these cards come with an annual fee, but some cards offer perks each year that are worth more than the fee total.
The US Bank Altitude Reserve Visa Card card is probably the best example of this.
APR rates and credit limits vary based on your individual credit.
Credit limits and interest rates for each card are determined based on each cardholder's personal situation, so we did not take that information into account when evaluating these cards.
One thing to remember is that if you pay your card off in full every month, you will not be charged interest.
Banks have final say on who they accept for a credit card.
These recommendations were put together with the assumption that applicants would have average credit or above.
That being said, banks decide who they will issue credit cards to using criteria including, but not always limited to, an individual's credit score when evaluating each applicant.
More: The Best Credit Cards for Hotel Guests Other Credit Cards We Recommend Barclaycard Arrival Plus World Elite Mastercard The Barclaycard Arrival Plus is a solid all-around travel card, and its a great credit card if you want the flexibility to choose how to use your points.
This card has an $89 annual fee, which is waived the first year.
Points: The Barclaycard Arrival Plus offers 2 miles per dollar spent on all purchases.
Arrival Plus miles can be redeemed for all kinds of travel purchases including hotels, cruises, car rentals, and flights, and every time you redeem your miles, youll get 5% of the miles back to use toward your next redemption.
The good thing about Barclay Arrival Miles is that any purchase that gets categorized as "travel" can have points applied to it as a statement credit.
So if you want to, say, explore Europe by train and you purchase a qualifying train ticket on your card, you can then use the points to "erase" the cost of the ticket in the form of a statement credit.
Perks: In addition to offering you a simple, yet still rewarding return on your spending, the Arrival Plus card doesnt charge foreign transaction fees and currently offers a 0% introductory APR period for 12 months on balance transfers made within the first 45 days of opening the account.
After the introductory 0% APR period, a variable APR (between 18.24%-25.24% based on creditworthiness) will apply.
Learn more about the Barclaycard Arrival Plus World Elite Mastercard US Bank Altitude Reserve Visa Infinite Card The US Bank Altitude Reserve comes with a hefty $400 annual fee, but it is packed full of benefits that could make it worth it if you value some of the premium benefits this card offers.
Points: For every dollar you spend on travel and with a mobile wallet (like Apple Pay, Samsung Pay, Google Pay, etc.
), youll earn 3 points.
All other purchases made with your Altitude Reserve will earn 1 point per dollar.
Perks: Easily the most valuable benefit of the Altitude Reserve card is the $325 annual travel credit.
You will automatically be reimbursed for the first $325 in purchases you make from hotels, car rental companies, taxis, limousines, passenger trains, cruise lines, and airlines.
If you use this benefit each year, you effectively bring the annual fee on this card down to only $75 - putting it on par with other cards on this list.
In addition to the travel credit, youll also receive a TSA PreCheck/Global Entry fee reimbursement.
While these are both programs that are geared toward flyers, members of Global Entry also receive expedited privileges at the US/Canada and US/Mexico land borders when crossing back into the US.
Learn more about the US Bank Altitude Reserve Visa Infinite Card Citi Double Cash While the Citi Double Cash card isnt technically a travel credit card, who can argue about cold hard cash that can still be used for travel?
Especially when were talking about a card that doesnt charge an annual fee.
Points: The Citi Double Cash card is simple and straightforward, while still being rewarding.
It offers 1% back on every purchase when you make your purchase and 1% back when you pay off your balance.
Assuming you do both, the Citi Double Cash card works out to a 2% cash back card.
Perks: Most cards that dont have annual fees dont have a ton in the way of additional perks, and the Citi Double Cash doesnt really stand out here.
It does offer a 0% APR on balance transfers for 18 months, as long as the transfer is made within 4 months of opening the account, but thats all there is to write home about.
After the introductory APR period, the APR will increase to 15.74-25.74%, based on your creditworthiness.
Learn more about the Citi Double Cash card If you're looking for the best credit cards to maximize your hotel stay, check out our guide The Best Credit Cards for Hotel Guests.
When you sign up for one of these cards, Reviewed may receive an affiliate commission from The Points Guy Affiliate Guy Network.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/04/16/the-best-travel-credit-cards-if-you-hate-flying/39352735/
The 8 best deals and sales you can get this Monday This Monday's best deals are on some amazing and useful items.
(Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA Todays newsroom and any business incentives.
I'm obsessed with always finding the best deals and buying the things I want and need when they're on sale.
But I've learned, sometimes the hard way, that not ever deal is worth your time.
Sometimes retailers inflate the original price to make a small discount seem larger.
Other times they may inflate a product's rating with fake or paid reviews, making it seem more appealing than it really is.
More: 16 amazing deals you can get at Nordstrom's huge spring sale To help you navigate these shark-infested waters, I put my bargain hunting skills to work along with the expertise of Reviewed's product testers (including myself) to seek out the best deals and sales that are actually worth your time and attention.
Relying on our test results, as well as investigating consumer reviews and price histories, I can confidently say these are the best deals and sales you'll find online this Monday, April 22.
1.
Shop the final day of Nordstrom's massive Spring Sale Don't miss the final day of this amazing sale.
(Photo: Gal Meets Glam, Nordstrom, and Anthropologie) Nordstrom's Spring Sale is the sale to shop, but today is the final day to get big discounts on popular brands like BP., Madewell, and Topshopand yes, even those infamous Capri candles are discounted right now.
My fashion-forward coworker put together a list of her 16 favorite sale items if you want to see the top pieces on sale, but note that many might already be out of stock.
That's the nature of sales at Nordstrom, so have your card ready if you see something you have to have.
Shop the Nordstrom Spring Sale 2.
Get the most popular DNA kit for 30% off The most popular DNA test kit is back on sale (Photo: Reviewed.com) If you always click on stories about people discovering long-lost family thanks to a DNA test kit, maybe it's time to see if your own genetic code holds any mysteries of your own.
Right now and through April 25 (DNA Day!
), Ancestry is discounting their popular DNA testing kits to just $70 on their own site as well as on Amazon.
This is the second best sale price we've seen so far this year.
Considering that Ancestry is constantly updating and refining your results, this is a great time to try it out.
Get the Ancestry DNA Test Kit from Ancestry for $69 (Save $30) 3.
Our favorite meat thermometer is 26% off (if you buy two) This adorable meat thermometer comes in a bunch of fun colors.
(Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar) Love to cook?
You should have a good meat thermometer in your arsenal, and right now you can get the best digital meat thermometer we've ever tested at a great discount.
The ThermoWorks ThermoPop is a favorite among celebrity chefs and YouTube cooking stars, and right now they're running a big discount when you buy at least two.
These typically $34 digital thermometers are only $25 each if you get more than one, so you can get one for yourself and give another to a loved one.
Heck, you could even squirrel the second one away for a birthday or the holidays (but I wouldn't hold onto the spare for too long.
it is grilling season after all).
Get the ThermoWorks ThermoPop Digital Meat Thermometer for $25 (Save $9 each) when you buy two or more 4.
The best essential oil diffuser is at nearly its best price ever Aromatherapy diffusers are all the rage these days, and this one is the best.
(Photo: Reviewed / Lagunamoon) Are you intrigued by the idea of using an essential oil diffuser?
There are tons of options out there, which can make it hard to choose, but we recommend this one from InnoGear.
Not only is it the best aromatherapy diffuser we've ever tested, but right now it's only $0.50 more than the lowest price we've ever seen thanks to a discount and an on-page coupon that takes another $1 off the price.
We loved the larger-than-average water reservoir that lets you run it longer than other models.
Coupled with the fun multicolor lights and the low price, this adorable diffuser is a steal.
And, through luck or fate or smart planning, the essential oil set our readers prefer to pair with this diffuser is also on sale for its lowest price ever, just $10.29, nearly $6 off the regular price.
Get the InnoGear Aromatherapy Diffuser on Amazon for $13.99 (Save $2) Get the Lagunamoon Essential Oil Set of 6 on Amazon for $10.29 (Save $5.70) 5.
Save up to 70% at Wayfair's 'Big Rug Sale' You can find loads of rugs like these are great prices in this sale.
(Photo: Wayfair) Who doesn't love a good rug sale?
Honestly, I wish I could cover my whole house in trendy rugs, but they're usually way more expensive than I care to think about.
Right now, however, Wayfair's holding a big old sale with prices you won't balk at.
They're discounting rugs of all sizes, shapes, and designs as much as 70%, and the closeout sale promises even bigger price drops.
You can find 8'x10' rugs for $100 and 5'x8' area rugs for as little as $40.
If you're sick of your family stomping around on your hardwood floors, or you want to spruce up your living spaces, this sale is definitely worth poking around.
Shop the Big Rug Sale at Wayfair 6.
The best paring knife is back to its best price You can do all sorts of meal prep with a paring knife.
(Photo: Wsthof) Unless you'e a trained chef (or have big dreams of winning a kitchen gameshow), you really don't need a lot of fancy knives.
A good chef's knife can handle most any task, but when you need to do something more preciselike deveining shrimp and peeling applesyou should have a solid paring knife at the ready.
This one from Wusthof blew the competition out of the water when we tested all the best paring knives with its impeccably balanced build that made it the easiest and most comfortable blade we tested.
Right now, this $50 knife is back down to the lowest price we've ever seen, making it a great time to level up your home cooking game.
Get the Wusthof Classic High Carbon Steel Knife Paring Knife on Amazon for $39.95 (Save $10) 7.
An amazing soundbar is 27% off This soundbar is the perfect way to enhance your gaming and movie experience.
(Photo: Samsung) Let's face it.
You've been using the built-in speakers on your TV for too long and the madness needs to stop.
TV makers don't really put much effort into including nice sound because most people have external setups.
Surround sound might be the golden standard for a home theater, but it's expensive and complicated to set up if you're not supe tech-savvy.
Soundbars have been growing in popularity because they give you basically the same sound enhancement (you'll actually be able to hear the dialogue for once) and this one from Samsung is a great option, especially if you already have a Samsung TV.
The HW-N650 is the next step up from the model we tested in our roundup of the best soundbars under $500, meaning it delivers better sound quality thanks to a few extra speakers.
We were quite fond of the N550 we got to try, especially loving how intuitive it was to sync to a Samsung TV.
Right now the N650 is under $300 at Massdrop, marking the best price we've seen by over $100.
The price you pay for such a huge discount is that it won't ship until May 7, but we think it's more than worth the wait.
Get the Samsung HW-N650 Soundbar for $289 at Massdrop (Save $110) 8.
One of the best affordable 4K TVs is at its lowest price You can't go wrong with a TCL TV if you want 4K on a budget.
(Photo: Reviewed / Lee Neikirk) TCL Roku TVs are amazing for their blend of affordability and qualityand in fact that's what we love most about them.
Plus, they have a streaming platform built right in so there is no additional device to set up to start enjoying your TV.
I've had one of these 4K TVs since Black Friday and I love it.
While we haven't reviewed this 55-inch 2018 model, we've seen consistent quality in every TCL we've tested so we're confident you'll love it, especially at its lowest price ever.
The colors aren't quite as bright and the blacks not as black as some higher-end TVs, but considering the price is more than half that of a fancier model, we're not complaining.
Get the TCL 55-In.
Roku 4K TV on Amazon for $534.99 (Save $115) The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest deals, reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/04/22/best-deals-right-now-nordstrom-wayfair-ancestry-dna-and-more/3536869002/
CLOSE Its called Stadia.
Time, Time Get ready gamers: Google is ready to take on Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo in the gaming space.
At the annual Game Developers Conference the technology giant announced its new Stadia gaming platform, looking to make it easier to not just make video games but play them on any screen you own including phones, computers and TVs.
Stadia, which will launch later in 2019, promises new ways to connect with games including a Play button on YouTube videos that will launch you from the video into that game.
Google demonstrated the new platform at the annual event Tuesday in San Francisco.
While showing a video of the game "Assassin's Creed Odyssey," it was shown how a "Play" button on the YouTube video could transport the viewer right into the game.
Often a player gets the urge to play a game while watching a video, but has to boot up a game console or another program on their computer.
This Stadia feature would get players into a game in "as quick as five seconds with no download, no patch, no update and no install," said Google vice president and general manager Phil Harrison, a former Sony and Microsoft game executive who joined Google last year.
"Stadia offers instant access to play ... (and reduces) the friction between getting excited about a game and playing a game," he said.
Other features built into Google's game-streaming platform include Crowd Play for instant joining and coordination of multiplayer games and Google Assistant-style help feature when players get stuck in games.
Last October, Google began Project Stream, a four-month PC streaming video game test that included Ubisoft's "Assassin's Creed Odyssey."
"We learned we could bring a triple A game to any platform using Chrome (Google's web browser)," Google CEO Sundar Pichai said at the event.
"We are dead serious about making this technology accessible to everyone," he said.
As opposed to downloading games to a hard drive, Stadia will tap into Googles vast global server network the same one that powers Google Search to stream the games to your devices.
"The data center is your platform, says head of engineering Majd Baker.
In another demonstration, the same game was handed off from a Pixel Chromebook, successively to a Pixel smartphone, desktop PC, tablet and then to a television using Chromecast.
Google vice president and general manager Phil Harrison on stage during Google's announcement of its Stadia video game platform at the Game Developers Conference Tuesday, March 19, in San Francisco.
(Photo: Google) Games will be able to stream in 4K at 60 frames per second, rivaling the graphical power of the Xbox One X and PlayStation 4 Pro.
Users can use a USB controller or Google's new Stadia remote that features WiFi to connect directly to the data center.
Google's controller also has a button dedicated to streaming to YouTube and one for summoning the Google Assistant for in-game help.
No pricing information was announced for the service or the controller.
Another feature, called State Share, would let players send a link via YouTube, email or other manner letting others pick up a game at a specific spot.
"I can create moments specifically for this kind of sharing," said Dylan Cuthbert, founder of game studio Q-Games and developer of games such as "Star Fox 64 3D" and "PixelJunk Monsters."
Can switch from Chrome OS to phone to Windows PC seamlessly.
That looks insanely cool.
#stadiapic.twitter.com/PJ0Gy1SILc Eli Blumenthal (@eliblumenthal) March 19, 2019 Cuthbert has a game in development that uses the feature.
He says he hopes to "let the internet turn my game into an infinite replayable treasure hunt."
More than 100 game studios have Stadia development tools now.
Among other developers working on games to play on Stadia is id Software, which will bring its "Doom Eternal" to the service.
Google will also open its own Stadia Games and Entertainment studio, which will bring its own first-party games to market and seek to remaster classic games to the system, said studio head Jade Raymond, previously a producer and executive producer with games such as "Assassin's Creed" and "Watch Dogs" with Ubisoft and worked on Star Wars games at Electronic Arts before joining Google recently.
"We are on the brink of a huge revolution in gaming, one that will unlock a whole new level of creativity for developers," she said.
Google is not alone in its vision of a cloud gaming future for video games a vision that could certainly make games a more economical proposition for consumers.
Microsoft and Electronic Arts are both working on cloud services, with Microsoft teasing a similar vision last year with its Project xCloud.
All this industry activity will grow cloud gaming subscriptions from an estimated $234 million last year to $1.5 billion in 2023, estimates research firm IHS Markit.
While Google has strengths in its network, devices and Chrome browser, "arguably both Microsoft and (Chinese gaming and internet giant) Tencent are better positioned with strengths in both infrastructure and content," said Piers Harding-Rolls, IHS Markit's head of games research, in an analysis Tuesday.
"I do not expect a Google cloud gaming proposition to dramatically impact the next cycle of console sales, but it may start to pick up some users that are not ready to spend $400 on a new console at launch," he said.
The future of gaming is not a box.
It's a place.
This is Stadia.
One place for all the ways we play https://t.co/v2jJTUWkYzpic.twitter.com/LlIHbjigDR Stadia (@GoogleStadia) March 19, 2019 Follow USA TODAY reporter Mike Snider on Twitter: @MikeSnider.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/news/2019/03/19/google-opens-up-video-gaming-across-devices-stadia-platform/3204415002/
In Dauntless, team up with other online Slayers to hunt massive beasts known as Behemoths, before they consume what's left of the world.
(Photo: Phoenix Labs) PC gamers, listen up.
Dig deep in your pockets and be honest if you have more loose change and lint than bills and credit cards, keep on reading.
There are some seriously good computer games that are free to download and play if you know where to look, that is.
You probably know about high-profile freebies like "Apex Legends," "Fortnite Battle Royale" and "League of Legends," but there are many others to choose from, representing every genre.
Some of these titles are older, mind you, but this isnt necessarily a bad thing given theyll require more modest computer specs to play and hey, chances are if you dont want to pay for a $59 computer game, you might not be so eager to upgrade your hardware, either.
Heres a peek at a few worthy free-to-play games to snag, but be aware some of the newer free games give you the option to pay for additional content.
Zynga still game: Farmville game spam battle couldn't stop Words with Friends maker PlayStation 5: First details point to 8K graphics, faster performance, no release in 2019 'Assassins Creed Unity' Emotionally affected by the devastating fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris this past week, Ubisoft the French game maker has pledged 500,000 (more than $560,000) to help with the restoration and reconstruction of the cathedral.
Whats more, the company is also giving away the PC version of the game "Assassins Creed Unity" (assassinscreed.com, for Windows PCs, rated Mature for ages 17-up), for free, through Thursday, April 25.
A scene from Assassin's Creed Unity, which replicates Paris 1789 1794, during the French Revolution.
(Photo: Ubisoft) Whats the connection?
This third-person adventure drops you in the middle of Paris during the bloody 1789 French Revolution and features the most immersive city environment in the game series to date including a digital replication of Notre Dame Cathedral.
Gamers assume the role of Arno, a young man scorned by a lost love, which helps fuel his thirst for vengeance directed to those responsible.
Political undertones are also very important in your missions, naturally, as our agile protagonist is thrown into the middle of a ruthless struggle for the fate of a nation against the Templars.
The 2014 stealth action game introduced cooperative (co-op) play for the first time in the series, allowing for up to four friends to take part in story-driven online missions.
'Path of Exile' If you enjoy action-heavy role-playing games (RPGs) like "Diablo," take the time to download and play "Path of Exile" (pathofexile.com, for Windows PCs, rated Mature for ages 17-up).
Set on a dark and brutal continent known as Wraeclast, this is an online dungeon crawler with a heavy emphasis on competitive PvP (player versus player) matches, deep character customization (with extensive skill trees), and a strong focus on items mostly gems as the in-game currency that grant special abilities (and modifications of them), making them valuable in trade.
Fans of action-heavy role-playing games like Diablo will feel right at home with "Path of Exile," an accessible fantasy RPG that focuses on characters customization, skill trees and trading items to boost abilities.
(Photo: Grinding Gear Games) Played from an angled top-down view, "Path of Exile" is meant to be re-playable, therefore all indoor and outdoor areas are randomly generated, as are the placement and type of creatures and items.
Also consider downloading other RPGs like "EverQuest" and "Dwarf Fortress," as well as free fantasy CCG (collectible card game) titles "Heroes of the Storm," "Magic: The Gathering," "The Elder Scrolls: Legends," "Fable Fortune" and "Arena Duelyst."
'Dauntless' If you revel in games like Capcoms "Monster Hunter World," check out "Dauntless" (playdauntless.com, for Windows PCs, age rating pending), a new free-to-play action game that challenges you to team up with other Slayers to hunt down huge monsters, called Behemoths.
The story follows a cataclysmic event that has torn the world apart, and thus releasing these Behemoths, which threaten human existence.
Published by Phoenix Labs (formed by ex-Riot Games developers), "Dauntless" has you first collect loot, used to craft and upgrade weapons and equipment, and then find and slaughter Behemoths with others in tactical hunts.
During combat, this third-person action game has you use might and magic to destroy the creatures.
The game can be played solo or cooperatively (co-op mode) with up to four people.
Seasonal content, including specific challenges, are available for purchase through a Hunt Pass.
The game should support cross-platform play when its released for all major consoles in 2019, as well.
Also grab these action-heavy sci-fi titles: "Star Wars: The Old Republic," "Rift," "Paladins," "Smite," "Dreadnaught" and "Planetside 2."
'Forza Motorsport 6 Apex' Calling all car enthusiasts: Microsoft Studios "Forza Motorsport 6 Apex" (forzamotorsport.net, for Windows 10 PCs, for all ages) is a free-to-play game, which lets you climb behind the wheel of more than 60 vehicles (each with working cockpits) and compete in about a dozen racing events.
Microsoft Studios robust driving game 'Forza Motorsport 6 Apex' for Windows 10 users includes more than 60 cars to unlock and race against others in several race types.
(Photo: Microsoft) This scaled-down version of the full 2015 Xbox One and Windows game "Forza Motorsport 6" offers similar cars (muscle, touring, exotics, GT racing, and more), circuits and environments.
It also delivers impressive graphics including 4K resolution support, wet-weather and night racing thanks in part to the state-of-the-art ForzaTech graphics and physics engine.
The game also supports text and voice chat via Xbox Live, and the ability to record and share your favorite clips with friends via the built-in Game DVR.
Like free racing games?
Also check out the free "TrackMania Nations Forever," "Real Racing 3" and "Asphalt Xtreme."
'Warframe' Where "Path of Exile" has you hacking and slashing, Digital Extremes "Warframe" (warframe.com, Windows PCs, ages 17-up) is more about running and gunning.
The free game delivers many hours of sci-fi action, especially when teaming up online with others to perform missions together.
"Warframe" introduces a militarized race known as the Grineer, whose armies are now spreading throughout our solar system.
To help aid in the fight against this malevolent force, youve been pulled out your cryostasis chamber and trained alongside other warriors known as the Tenno.
These fighters take advantage of an ancient exo-skeletal technology called Warframes, which give them superpowers.
Consider Warframes a kind of battlesuit high-tech armor that lets you withstand serious damage, jump high and upgrade via modifications (mods) throughout the course of the game.
In a recent expansion called Fortuna, those who play "Warframe" can now venture to Venus, where they can fight a slew of new enemies while zipping around on customizable hoverboards.
(Photo: Digital Extremes Ltd.) Also available for consoles, there are several kinds of Warframes and weapons to choose and master in these massive open-world areas.
The Vauban, for example, can zap or imprison enemies, while the more stealth-like Banshee uses acoustics to target and attack.
Taking on a more supportive role, the Trinity can heal other Tenno fighters.
And be sure to check out the new hoverboard mode!
Also consider other action titles like "Team Fortress 2," "Double Action: Boogaloo," "Evolve Stage 2" and "Brink."
'StarCraft II' In case you missed it, Blizzard made "StarCraft II" (starcraft2.com, for Mac and Windows PCs, ages 13-up) free back in 2017.
The iconic real-time strategy game includes the original game "StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty" campaign, but not the chapters that followed: "Heart of the Swarm," "Legacy of the Void" and "Nova Covert Ops."
Pitting three alien races against one another on hostile worlds, Blizzards classic real-time strategy (RTS) game 'StarCraft II' is available as a free download.
(Photo: Blizzard Entertainment, Inc.) You can play the single-player campaign, co-op mode or Versus (PvP), but there are a couple of multiplayer restrictions, such as limited access to Commanders Kerrigan, Raynor and Artanis (up to level 5 only, for free).
Available for PC and Mac, the story surrounds the battle for dominance between the Terrans (humans), the tech-savvy Protoss and swarming Zerg three powerful and well-balanced races that face off on alien worlds and each with their own tactics, technology, units and weapons, as well as unique characters and motivations.
The story follows Jim Raynor, a marshal-turned-rebel leader for the Terrans.
While the goals are set per level, such as freeing allies, defending your base, and recovering an artifact, you can often choose which technology and military upgrades to invest in and even select the desired path to take.
Also download these strategy games: "Total War Battles: Kingdom and Twisted Insurrection" (a standalone modification based on "Command & Conquer Tiberian Sun").
Follow Marc on Twitter: @marc_saltzman.
Email him or subscribe to his Tech It Out podcast at www.marcsaltzman.com.
Gaming on your PC?
: These are 6 accessories you need to score Microsoft Xbox: Xbox One gets cheaper with new disc-less $249 One S All-Digital Edition Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/columnist/saltzman/2019/04/20/fortnite-apex-legends-and-beyond-heres-six-free-games-pcs/3482399002/
CLOSE Tesla unveiled their newest vehicle, an electric SUV dubbed the Tesla Model Y. USA TODAY What's a frunk?
It's a trunk ... under the hood.
And several automakers are beginning to offer them in electric cars.
The concept is not unheard of.
The Volkswagen Beetle, for example, had storage space in the front.
(RIP, Beetle.)
But electric vehicles don't have a conventional internal combustion engine, and their electric parts can be situated for maximize storage space.
It wasn't always this way.
The first version of the Chevrolet Volt semi-electric vehicle had only four usable seats because the middle seat in the back had to be warped to make room for the battery pack.
But as battery design and performance have advanced, electric cars are getting new storage areas.
The Volt, which is being discontinued as GM focuses on pure-electric cars like the Bolt, eventually evolved and got its middle seat back.
The Rivian RT1 electric truck has storage where an engine used to be, otherwise known as a "frunk."
(Photo: Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY) More from the New York Auto Show: Once-dead compact pickup is poised for a comeback More from the New York Auto Show: 4 winners, 4 losers from the show floor Tesla can be credited with popularizing the concept of the "frunk."
It's a key feature on the Model 3 compact sedan, Model S luxury car and Model X SUV.
Now there's Rivian, a start-up electric vehicle company, whose Rivian RT1 electric pickup has a frunk as well as an extra storage space called a gear tunnel that runs through the vehicle from left to right.
The Rivian pickup is on display at the 2019 New York Auto Show, which began Wednesday with press previews.
Check out the photos in our gallery above.
Follow USA TODAY reporter Nathan Bomey on Twitter @NathanBomey.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/cars/2019/04/20/electric-car-frunks-tesla-rivian-jaguar/3520597002/
SAN FRANCISCO The backlash against the tech industry-wide push to hire more women and minorities has flared again this time at Microsoft.
Some employees on an internal message board questioned the tech giant's efforts to shift the demographics of its largely white and Asian male workforce, asking for evidence that a diverse workforce benefits Microsoft.
Eighty-seven percent of Microsoft employees are white or Asian, and more than 73 percent are men, according to the company's most recent diversity report.
"Does Microsoft have any plans to end the current policy that financially incentivizes discriminatory hiring practices?"
asks one post written by a female engineer on Yammer, the internal message board.
"To be clear, I am referring to the fact that senior leadership is awarded more money if they discriminate against Asians and white men."
The criticism, first reported by online news service Quartz, is similar to a highly publicized dust-up at Google in 2017 when James Damore was fired from his engineering job after writing a controversial memo on an internal message board taking issue with the search company's efforts to address the shortage of women and underrepresented minorities in its ranks, arguing that the low number of women in engineering roles reflected biological differences.
The backlash against the tech industry-wide push to hire more women and minorities has flared again this time at Microsoft.
(Photo: Ethan Miller / Getty Images) Growing the ranks of women and people of color is a pressing challenge for the tech industry, whose customers are increasingly diverse.
Research is piling up that companies with diverse workforces fetch a higher market value and returns.
Tech companies say they need more workers from different backgrounds to brainstorm and build better products for a global marketplace.
At the same time, people from underrepresented groups are being excluded from technical and non-technical positions in one of the nations wealthiest, fastest-growing and highest-paying sectors.
Yet the nation's largest technology companies have struggled to reverse decades of hiring practices and to make their corporate cultures more welcoming to women and people of color.
The debate on an internal message board at Microsoft, which began simmering late last year and earlier this year, highlights ongoing tensions in the tech industry over diversity and inclusion programs.
"We still lack any empirical evidence that the demographic distribution in tech is rationally and logically detrimental to the success of the business in this industry," one Microsoft employee posted, according to Quartz.
"We have a plethora of data available that demonstrate women are less likely to be interested in engineering AT ALL than men, and it's not because of any *ism or *phobia or 'unconscious bias' it's because men and women think very differently from each other, and the specific types of thought process and problem solving required for engineering of all kinds (software or otherwise) are simply less prevalent among women."
After Damore's firing from Google, some employees accused the company of penalizing him for expressing his personal beliefs.
His dismissal was widely condemned by conservatives who accused the company of silencing dissenting viewpoints.
Other employees argued Google had done too little to advance women and other underrepresented groups or to regulate hate speech and harassment at Google.
And they accused Google of not doing enough to shield them from a harassment campaign that subjected them to hateful comments and violent threats.
The incident sparked a culture war inside the company.
Damore filed a wrongful termination lawsuit against Google.
Another former employee sued, claiming the diversity push discriminated against white and Asian men.
The anti-diversity messages on Microsoft's internal message board come at a difficult time for the company.
In recent weeks, women employees began sharing stories of harassment, discrimination and unequal pay on the message board, alleging the company had done too little to resolve these issues.
On Monday, CEO Satya Nadella responded in a company-wide memo to 130,000 employees.
Im disappointed to hear about any behavior in our workplace that falls short of the diverse and inclusive culture we are striving to create, he wrote.
But Im encouraged that people feel empowered to speak up and demand change.
He pledged a number of steps including overhauling how human resources investigates these cases.
He also warned employees that they would all be held accountable for making Microsoft a more diverse and inclusive workplace.
"This past year, we increased our commitment with a new core priority on inclusion for every employee," he wrote.
"If you are not helping to create an inclusive culture, your rewards, your career trajectory and possibly even your employment will be impacted," he wrote.
Microsoft declined to comment on the message board threads but told USA TODAY many of the comments were made by two dozen or so employees.
Three executives posted responses on the internal message board, which also contained comments that were supportive of the company's diversity efforts, according to Microsoft.
Quartz reported that one of the most active threads challenging the diversity efforts had more than 800 comments.
Internally, some employees criticized Microsoft for not challenging or taking down their colleagues' comments.
HR, Satya, all the leadership are sending out emails that they want to have an inclusive culture, but theyre not willing to take any action other than talk about it, one employee told Quartz.
They allow people to post these damaging, stereotypical things about women and minorities, and they do nothing about it.
Read more USA TODAY coverage: Diversity, equity and inclusion in the tech industry Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2019/04/19/microsoft-debate-raging-after-employees-question-diversity-push/3525934002/
Pedestrians walk past a Huawei retail shop in Beijing on Dec. 6, 2018.
(Photo: Ng Han Guan, AP) SHENZHEN, China Depending on whom you believe, Huawei is either a key provider of cellular equipment and a critical partner in the transition to 5G.
Or an agent of the Chinese government, wittingly or unwittingly building out the global powers next-generation intelligence and cyber-warfare network.
So which is it?
Theres little doubt as to the first claim.
Huawei, headquartered here, is the biggest cellular equipment supplier, nearly as large as the next two providers, Nokia and Ericsson, combined.
The companys gear is integral to many 4G and emerging 5G networks around the globe.
Which means industry leaders aggressive timetable for outfitting the world with 5G simply isnt possible if Huawei (pronounced WAH-way) doesnt participate.
Galaxy Fold screens breaking: Samsung has a mess with the nearly $2,000 Galaxy Fold: Screens are breaking, reviewers say McDonald's premium menu shrinks: McDonalds cuts its premium sandwiches line, Signature Crafted Recipes, after two years As to Huaweis role in Chinese intelligence, theres no corroboration.
Only fear.
Of which theres plenty.
What's at stake with 5G Thats because there is so much at stake.
The vision for 5G extends far beyond streaming YouTube videos and Facebook feeds to our devices.
Its architected to connect just about anything you can think of to just about anything else.
Cars and traffic lights.
Vibration sensors and factory equipment.
Cameras and smart locks.
The potential for cutting costs, improving lives and creating new products and services seems limitless.
The potential for bad actors to wreak havoc in the 5G era is just as awesome.
By wresting control of the network, cyber-warriors could potentially force unimaginable horrors from afar, like directing trucks into crowds or disabling disaster-prevention safeguards in nuclear power plants.
Theres no evidence to suggest Huawei executives have any inclination to let bad actors engage in such activities via its equipment, let alone do it themselves.
But the company is Chinese.
And after a steady stream of hacking reports, American distrust of Chinas intentions is understandably high.
Last month, for example, the US Navy reported it was under intense cyber-siege by Chinese hackers.
Add to the mix a US government thats mighty uncomfortable with the lack of domestic suppliers to help guide the build-out of a technology that will shape commerce for decades to come.
Sprinkle in an unprecedented trade war with China, and you have the makings for a very unpleasant time in the crosshairs for Huawei.
Yet through it all, the company has largely kept its composure.
And much of its business prospects.
In its annual report, released last month, the privately-owned company reported sales of 721.2 billion yuan (about $105.2 billion), 19.5 percent higher than 603.6 billion yuan recorded in 2017.
Net income grew even faster by 25.1 percent, to 59.3 billion yuan.
In an otherwise banner year, Huaweis carrier business actually declined 1.3 percent in 2018 to 294 billion yuan (about $42.9 billion).
The company attributes that to a pause between generations, as 4G development slows but 5G isnt yet big enough to pick up the slack.
The company expects double-digit growth this year.
Last year was a fruitful year for us.
And an eventful year as well, Ken Hu, Huaweis Deputy Chairman told about 750 journalists, analysts and partners during his keynote at the companys annual Huawei Analyst Summit, held here this week.
We did have some challenges.
No kidding.
Giving up on Huawei smartphones in the U.S.
The year began and ended jarringly for Huawei.
In January, on the cusp of announcing at CES that AT&T would become the first US operator to offer a Huawei phone, the carrier backed out of the deal, reportedly under pressure from the federal government.
With its acquisition of Time Warner hanging in the balance, AT&T was in no position to quibble.
In a rare display of emotion from a Huawei exec, Richard Yu, CEO of the companys Consumer Business Group, passionately defended his companyin his keynote.
The last 30 years, we proved our quality.
We proved our security, our privacy protection, he said.
Its proved.
A few months later, Huawei gave up entirely on the US smartphone market.
Meng Wanzhou, Chief Financial Officer of Huawei, is pictured attending the VTB Capital's 'RUSSIA CALLING' investment forum in Moscow.
(Photo: Maxim Shipenkov, EPA-EFE) And then in December, Canadian authorities abruptly arrested Huaweis Chief Financial Officer for possible extradition to the US.
Meng Wanzhou, who is also the daughter of the companys founder, is accused of working around US sanctions to do business in Iran.
The case is ongoing.
President Trump fueled speculation that the arrest was intertwined with the trade war when he said he might intervene on her behalf if the US and China inked the largest trade deal ever made.
At the start of this year, the Justice Department added to Huaweis woes, charging the company with stealing the design for a smartphone tester from T-Mobile.
Huawei has pled not guilty.
Even if the charges turn out to be true, they are unrelated to the feds chief concern: that Huaweis presence in the US would help China spy and commit cyber-attacks.
One positive development for Huawei: the US backed off threats to stop sharing intelligence with Germany after the European ally decided not to block Huawei from providing 5G equipment.
5G risks: 5G is speedy, but does it also raise the stakes on privacy, security, potential abuse?
A cyber-security oversight board in Britain did find significant technical issues in Huaweis wireless network equipment.
But the report suggested the vulnerabilities were borne out of basic engineering competence and cyber security hygiene, not malice.
Huaweis Hu downplayed the rollercoaster.
After his speech, he said there will always be ups and downs.
Hu said he believes open cyber standards will help ease the political strains of this early stage in 5G, and make security concerns easier to police.
"Its a technical issue, Hu said.
If cybersecurity is politicized, then this will be a very big challenge for the entire industry, not just Huawei.
That may be true, at least in the long term.
In the meantime, though, Huawei would do well to strap in.
Because the company is likely in for a few more ups and downs on the road to the 5G superhighway.
Mike Feibus is principal analyst at FeibusTech, a Scottsdale, Arizona, market strategy and analysis firm focusing on mobile ecosystems and client technologies.
Reach him at mikef@feibustech.com.
Follow him on Twitter @MikeFeibus.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/2019/04/19/huawei-chinese-spies-trustworthy-5-g-industry-partner/3522340002/
Google offers free YouTube Music for Google Home speakers Matching Amazon's new free music offer on Echo speakers, Google now offers owners of the Google Home speaker access to free tunes, via YouTube Music.
There's a big difference: songs are sponsored on Amazon Echo speakers, while tunes for Google users are free.
Additionally, they can be listened on both the Google Home speaker line, and any speaker that has the Google Assistant, Google's Siri/Alexa like helper.
That includes the brands Sony, JBL, Harman and others.
What you can't get is on-demand song selection, but instead playlists or radio stations created based on your requests.
On-demand fans will need to upgrade to YouTube Music Premium, which costs $9.99 monthly.
(Photo: Google) More: "Alexa, play some free songs for me" More: New high-res music streaming service Qobuz launches in US, takes aim at Spotify, Pandora To access the free songs, Google Home owners will need to set YouTube Music as the default music service.
(Which means knocking out Spotify, if that's your choice.)
This is done in account settings.
But for the free music, in a company blog, Google suggests asking for "Latin vibes," or music for a home workout.
"With YouTube Music and Google Home, you can ask Google Home to play the right music for any moment or mood, and YouTube Music will play the perfect station, customized to your tastes based upon your request."
On Echo speakers, Amazon initially only offered music to members of the $119 yearly Prime service, which offers expedited shipping and entertainment, but this week opened it to anyone who owned an Echo.
Prime members still get 2 million songs ad-free.
A bigger selection of 50 million songs is available from Amazon Music Unlimited for $9.99 monthly, or $7.99 monthly for Prime members.
Spotify has nearly 100 million subscribers globally to 56 million from No.
2 Apple Music.
Apple offers free trials of its service but doesn't offer a free tier for listening to music with ads, beyond genre radio stations.
Amazon has said it has 100 million subscribers to the Prime service.
Follow USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham (@jeffersongraham) on Twitter Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2019/04/19/youtube-music-now-free-google-speakers-including-home-and-jbl-sony/3520765002/
15 great deals from Anthropologie's massive weekend sale Save big on home decor, spring fashion, and fun accessories with this incredible sale on sale.
(Photo: Anthropologie) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA Todays newsroom and any business incentives.
Stop what youre doing.
Anthropologie is having a massive sale on sale right now.
Everything thats already discounted is an extra 50% off this weekend.
This sale started earlier this week, so unfortunately a lot of great items are already sold out or are running low on size and color options.
My team of dedicated online bargain hunters and shopping expertsCourtney, Shayna, Isabelle, and myselfdropped everything to comb through what's left and find the best of the best.
But there are still plenty of amazing deals to take advantage of whether you want to spruce up your spring wardrobe with a new top or pair of shoes, or give your home a little facelift with a new velvet chair.
Weve all been shopping for ourselves as we hunt for the best items still on sale and our carts are starting to fill up fast.
The extra discount will show up once you add an item to your cart, so remember that the prices on the site will be cut in half when you buy.
When we first found this sale, we also noticed there are a lot of other great sales happening at Anthro right now as well.
For instance, you can get an extra 20% off full-price jewelry, beauty and wellness, tops, bedding and rugs, dinnerware, and (most importantly) candles.
If you really needed an excuse to keep shopping, there ya go.
The sale on sale items lasts all weekend, but things move very fast when Anthropologie discounts anythingat least half of our favorite finds went out of stock while we were writing this!so we highly recommend you shop now to get the best possible selection.
1.
A flirty top There's something sexy about off-the-shoulder.
(Photo: Anthropologie) Off-the-shoulder tops are the perfect, flirty piece for date night, because who doesnt love showing off some sexy collarbone action?
This basic top is made out of a stretchy, ribbed fabric and looks amazing tucked into both skirts and skinny jeans.
If you need a new top for your fun weekend plans but dont want to break the bank, youve found it.
- Isabelle Get the Copeland Off-The-Shoulder Top for $14.98 (Save $33.02) 2.
A chic and functional circle bag This classic circle bag features a woven front for added texture and definition.
(Photo: Anthropologie) Im not ashamed to admit that Im sort-of obsessed with this bag.
With its classic circle shape, woven textured front, and simple color palate, its not the kind of bag that just makes a statement on its ownand thats what makes it such an elegant addition to almost any look.
This lightweight yet roomy bag has versatility and can easily adapt from daytime to evening settings, which makes it a must-have.
- Shayna Get the Kelsey Woven Circle Bag for $29.98 (Save $58.02) 3.
On-trend bootcut jeans Country, but make it chic.
(Photo: Anthropologie) Skinny jeans move aside, because bootcut jeans are back baby, and theyre better than ever.
These dark-wash, high-rise jeans are made with high-quality denim and reviewers are lauding their flattering shape and comfortable fit.
If youve been thinking about branching out on your jean collection or just want to be more like Kourtney Kardashian, consider these while theyre at this amazing price.
- Isabelle Get the Pilcro High-Rise Bootcut Jeans for $39.98 (Save $110.02) 4.
A classic monogrammed mug Tea time is better with a monogram attached to it.
(Photo: Anthropologie) Nothing makes me feel classier than sipping tea out of a mug with my monogram on it.
Since its sale on sale theres only a limited amount of letters of this one left.
But this adorable mug is literally $3, so even if you dont see your monogram, I would still try to snag it to add to your mug collection.
- Courtney Get the Tea Time Monogram Mug for $3.48 (Save $6.52) 5.
A little red dress for when you're feeling fierce Upgrade that LBD with a pop of red.
(Photo: Anthropologie) Its an undeniable fact that every woman needs an LBD in her closet, but honestly we think a red dress is even better.
This timeless, elegant dress is perfect to throw on for many different occasions, from weddings to a simple workday.
Itll add a pop of color and liven up your outfit for the day, too.
- Isabelle Get the Debutante Dress for $49.98 (Save $108.02) 6.
A sparkly cuff bracelet This gemstone bracelet has a bohemian vibe all its own.
(Photo: Anthropologie) Crystals and gemstones are having a moment right now, but even if youre not super-witchy yourself, you can still give off good vibes with this cuff bracelet.
Made with hand-sculpted materials by designer Dani Barbe, this gemstone bracelet comes in two varietiesa soft, ultra-femme cuff made with raw rose quartz, citrine, and garnet and a second option made with raw topaz, labradorite, and iolite, which have a more ethereal energy.
- Shayna Get the Raw Gemstone Cluster Cuff Bracelet for $59.98 (Save $108.03) 7.
A chic and cozy kimono This fringed kimono is cozy yet functional, and adds a stylish touch to any look.
(Photo: Anthropologie) Theres just something about a kimono that immediately elevates your look.
Cozy and functionalyet so on-trend right nowthis fringed kimono can really tie your ensemble together.
While its definitely warm enough that you could wear it in place of a coat or bulky sweater, its still funky enough that you can have a little fun with your outfit, especially during the colder (read: boring) months of the year.
- Shayna Get the Portland Collar Kimono for $44.98 (Save $93.03) 8.
A show-stopping accent chair This chair is begging to be sat on in your home.
(Photo: Anthropologie) Nothing looks more chic or elegant than a velvet chair.
Theyre smooth to the touch and will seriously elevate whatever room theyre in.
When guests arent fighting over whos going to sit in this one, you can enjoy just staring at it all day.
Even better, this one is half off its original price.
- Courtney Get the Velvet Savonna Chair for $399.96 (Save $398.04) 9.
A staple suede belt This suede belt adds the perfect touch to any look, whether you're in jeans or a dress.
(Photo: Anthropologie) This suede belt is more than just functional: its a chic compliment to a variety of different looks.
Made in eye-catching red with an adjustable buckle closure, this belt can pair perfectly with a pair of denim jeans or to cinch in your favorite dress or oversized cardigan.
It also can add a much-needed pop of color, especially to monochromatic looks.
- Shayna Get the Anthropologie Carmen Belt in Red for $14.98 (Save $33.02) 10.
An adorable safari-inspired planter This whimsical pot might actually help you keep your plants alive.
(Photo: Anthropologie) Now, I'm not saying you need an gazelle pot, but I'm not saying you don't need an gazelle pot.
This speckled pot is the perfect size to hold small plants, succulents, and herbs and will add some whimsy to your windowsill.
If you have issues keeping your plants alive (*cough, cough*), then maybe you'll have better luck with your green thumb if you know this guy is counting on you.
- Courtney Get the Anna-Lise Schmidt Gazelle Pot for $9.98 (Save $24.02) 11.
A cozy pullover for spring nights This light sweater is perfect for spring weather.
(Photo: Anthropologie) This pullover has a perfect 5-star rating for a reason.
Its super soft and cozy, while still being lightweight and breathable for spring.
It comes in three fun shades too, so you may just want to buy multiple colors at this sale price, in case you fall in love with it like so many other reviewers have.
- Isabelle Get the Holdrege Pullover for $24.98 (Save $53.02) 12.
A classy monogrammed candle A great smelling candle and decor all in one.
(Photo: Anthropologie) A candle can only be made better with your monogram on it.
This one smells like sweet grapefruit, which will bring springtime scents into your home.
Even better: Once you burn it out you can use it as a decoration or a jewelry hold for your rings and earrings.
- Courtney Get the Monogram Candle for $7.48 (Save $16.52) 13.
A great gingham pencil skirt Get in on the gingham trend.
(Photo: Anthropologie) Gingham has been all the rage recently, and we are here for it.
Thats right ladies, this fabric is no longer just reserved for your picnic table, but is now a chic closet staple next to its polka dot and stripe counterparts.
Whether in the form of a cute sundress, or in this case a fashionable pencil skirt, you should definitely rock some gingham this spring while the trend is hot.
- Isabelle Get the Maeve Gingham Pencil Skirt for $34.98 (Save $63.03) 14.
These very on-trend 'shooties' For day to night functionality, these slingbacks are the way to go.
(Photo: Anthropologie) If your favorite heels and the comfiest pair of booties you own had a shoe-baby, itd probably come out looking a bit like these Tracy Slingback Shooties.
Available in rose, black, or grey, these have a wear-anywhere style to them, so theyre just as good for the office as they are for date night.
While reviewers say they run a bit large, they dont feel heavy to wear, which is rare with platforms this thick.
- Shayna Get the Anthropologie Tracy Slingback Shooties in Rose, Black, or Grey for $49.98 (Save $80.03) 15.
A romantic turtleneck dress A posh turtleneck dress will be your next go-to for brunch.
(Photo: Anthropologie) When it comes to buying comfy basics like this ribbed, turtleneck dress, our motto is that you can never have too many in your closet.
Well maybe you can, but we choose to not believe that, especially when an Anthro sale is happening.
This high-neck dress features a cut-out back and asymmetric hemline which makes it more unique than a run-of-the-mill knee-length dress.
- Isabelle Get the Ribbed Turtleneck Dress for $34.98 (Save $85.02) Shop the Sale on Sale at Anthropologie The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest deals, reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/04/19/anthropologie-spring-sale-2019-best-deals-clothing-shoes-home-and-more/3519012002/
None Doug Dohring is the CEO of Age of Learning, the company that makes the ABCMouse educational game.
Jefferson Graham
This awesome soundbar is on sale for a great pricebut it won't last We're very excited about this awesome soundbar sale.
(Photo: Samsung) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
Have you ever faced the dilemma of settling in to watch a movie, and youre unable to understand the dialoguepossibly over the chips youre crunching onso you turn up the volume on your TV to no avail?
It makes sense.
Our thorough research into the best TVs usually reveals one area that is always lacking: the sound.
The subpar built-in speakers that accompany most TVs these days just dont cut it; they are often too small and are not well-placed on the TV, resulting in poor sound projection and quality.
And here at Reviewed, we dont want you to settle for closed captions, which is why we were excited to find an amazing deal on Massdrop for a Samsung soundbar that is bound to deliver an immersive audio experience while you binge episodes of your favorite shows cough cough (Game of Thrones).
The Samsung HW-N650 Panoramic Soundbar usually retails for around $400 on Amazon, but is available on Massdrop for $289.99 until April 24.
This limited-time deal offers the best price point weve seen for this model, which was released in 2018 to great reviews.
We tested the base model for the Samsung HW-N series this year in our roundup of the best soundbars under $500, and found that it was a reasonably priced, sound choice (pun intended), especially for Samsung TV owners.
Why should you consider this soundbar Ultimately, TV junkies have a choice when it comes to the type of external speaker they choose.
Though surround sound systems have their own merits, soundbars can be much more cost-effective and can handle the job perfectly well, especially the Samsung HW-N650.
In fact, our home theater expert, Lee Neikirk, had this to say about it: The HW-650 is a step up from the 550 we tested, and the key difference is that it has more speakers and better sound quality.
Both are soundbar/subwoofer combos, but the 650 (should be) better because it uses speakers that fire in a variety of directions to create a more authentic surround sound.
This soundbar and subwoofer (left) create an enveloping sound in your home theater.
(Photo: Samsung) What makes it special In terms of features, Samsung incorporated what they like to call acoustic Beam technology into this soundbar, which basically promises a panoramic sound that travels in sync with the visuals on screen.
The soundbar also serves as a useful speaker for playing music, with built-in Bluetooth capability that allows you to stream songs from your smart device.
It comes with a separate subwoofer too, which will boost the bass and thus is perfect for delivering all the explosions and gunshots in your favorite action flicks.
Additionally, for all the gamers out there, the HW-N650 comes with a "Game Mode" setting that is specifically designed to bring video games to life with enhanced sound effects.
Another benefit is that if youre a Samsung TV owner, it's super easy to set up this soundbar.
No wires are required for connectivity, as the soundbar can receive wireless sound from any compatible Samsung TV.
Better yet, for the lazy oaf in us all, you can even use your Samsung TV remote to operate the soundbar.
At the end of the day, this is an impressive deal on an equally impressive soundbar.
If youve been considering an upgrade to your home theater, we think this is a great opportunity to do so and save some money while youre at it.
To access this sale pricing, simply sign up for a free account with Massdrop.
Just keep in mind that the soundbar will not ship until around May 7, so your home theater will not be immediately complete.
But, as they say, good things come to those who wait, right?
The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest, deals, product reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/04/19/this-awesome-soundbar-is-on-sale-for-a-great-pricebut-it-wont-last/39366591/
BlackBerry Messenger or BBM to be shut down for consumers on May 31 Its been practically forever since BlackBerry sat on the smartphone throne.
And now one of the last remnants from BlackBerrys heyday is about to mostly disappear.
That would be BlackBerry Messenger or BBM, a mobile messaging app created way back in 2005 when BlackBerry was run by the Canadian enterprise known then as Research In Motion or RIM.
The BBM blog announces that the consumer version of BlackBerry Messenger will be shut down May 31.
(Photo: USA TODAY) Since 2016, BBM has been under the auspices of Creative Media Works, a division of PT Elang Mahkota Teknologi Tbk or Emtek, one of Indonesias largest media, content and tech businesses.
The company has just blogged that on May 31, the consumer version of BBM would be shutting down for good.
(A fee-based enterprise version remains.)
Galaxy Fold screen problems: Samsung has a mess with the nearly $2,000 Galaxy Fold: Screens are breaking, reviewers say T-Mobile banking: T-Mobile gets into banking, offering 4% interest and no fees on its free checking account We poured our hearts into making this a reality, and we are proud of what we have built to date, the company wrote.
The technology industry, however, is very fluid, and in spite of our substantial efforts, users have moved on to other platforms, while new users proved difficult to sign on.
The relatively few of you are who you still on the messaging platform can continue to use BBM until the end of May when service will cease.
Youll want to make sure to download any photos, videos or files shared through BBM prior to that date since youll no longer be able to open the app on your device thereafter, even to peek at old messages.
The company says you cannot export your contacts or feeds from the BBM app.
Once the BBM service is shut down, channels, feeds and any other data stored on BBM servers will be deleted within 7 days, other than data the company says it is required to keep for legal reasons.
The process to delete data from the companys cloud infrastructure will take up to 180 days.
BlackBerry Limited subsequently announced that in light of Emteks decision to end the consumer service of BBM, it would make BBM Enterprise (BBMe), the enterprise-grade, end-to-end encrypted version of the messaging platform, available for individual use.
While we respect Emteks decision, were disappointed the platform did not thrive and grow as expected, said BlackBerry chief marketing office Mark Wilson said in a statement.
After much consideration, we decided that BBMs loyal users should continue to have a secure messaging platform that they can trust.
The BBMe app is now available in the Google Play store and will be available soon in the Apple App Store, BlackBerry announced.
It will be free for the first year, after which a 6-month subscription will cost $2.49.
Meanwhile, BlackBerry still technically operates the BBM service for the relatively tiny number of people that still have BlackBerry 10 OS devices.
Ironically, the BBM news comes just as TCL Communication, whose portfolio now includes BlackBerry hardware, announced that the Red Edition of the Android-based BlackBerry KEY2 smartphone yes the phone has a version of BlackBerrys iconic physical keyboard is now available in the U.S. for $699.
The BBM blog ended with a nostalgic touch: We hope you will cherish many fond memories of BBM consumer service that helped shape messenger platforms to become what they are today.
Sadly, nostalgia doesnt pay the bills.
Email: ebaig@usatoday.com; Follow @edbaig on Twitter Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2019/04/19/bbm-messaging-consumers-closing-how-prepare-its-departure/3519164002/
Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
Our picks and opinions are independent from any business incentives.
We spent months testing the most popular running watches on the market.
Our favorite ended up being the Garmin Forerunner 645 ( available at Amazon for $449.99 ) because of the ease of use during long runs and extra bonus features like being able to download music.
If our top pick isnt your cup of tea, dont worry, weve got plenty of other options.
Whether youre an experienced runner or just starting out, all you need to conquer a run is a pair of shoes and enough open space to put one foot in front of the other.
Other pieces of equipment like foam rollers and yoga mats might be helpful to stretch out on, but when it comes down to it, the only extra accessory that your workouts can truly benefit from is a running watch.
Best Overall Credit: Reviewed/Jackson Ruckar The Garmin Forerunner 645 is the best overall running watch we tested.
Garmin Forerunner 645 Music Where To Buy $449.99 Amazon Buy $449.99 Walmart Buy $449.99 Target Buy $449.99 Best Buy Buy Garmin Forerunner 645 Music Best Overall Who its for: For the serious runner who's looking to get data and feedback both during and after their run.
Ease of use: Setup only takes a few minutes and then youre ready to go.
The battery reaches a full charge in approximately two hours and lasts for a few days, so you dont have to worry about plugging the watch every night before you go to bed.
It also presents running data in a linear way and syncing it to the Garmin app is really easy.
Comfort: This watch is a perfect size.
It never got caught up in sweatshirt or sweater sleeves, which made it easy to check the pace and time during a bundled up winter run.
The water resistance is also great for tracking laps in the pool or running in the rain.
Did we mention that it comes in either rose gold or stainless steel?
Not only is it functional, but it's also a head-turner.
Pros: The buttons on the side of the watch make it abundantly clear what the purpose of each is for, so you're never left guessing which one does what.
Distance, time, and pace are easy to read when quickly glancing down in the middle of a tough workout.
You can also set the lap pace to different distances, the standard being a mile.
When you hit a mile, its impossible not to know.
Between the beeping and vibrations, this watch ensures you wont miss out on what your lap pace was.
Cons: The one drawback is the overwhelming amount of features.
While its relatively simple to use, to discover more in-depth data, you have to do some digging around on the watch.
Stats that feature your weekly averages of things like steps and heart rate are hidden pretty well, and you could easily miss them when scrolling through the main screens.
Bonus perk: With the Forerunner 645s music feature, you can download songs and listen via Bluetooth.
This is great because it gives you the option to leave your phone at home.
However, if you prefer to be connected during your run and cant miss an important call or text, the watch also sends text and incoming call alerts.
You can also track activities like swimming, biking, skiing, rowing, and yoga.
If you're not up to running the same route, you can program your own workout and then download it to the watch, which helps change up your workout routine.
Best Value Credit: Reviewed/Jackson Ruckar The Garmin Forerunner 35 is the best value running watch we tested.
Garmin Forerunner 35 Where To Buy $99.99 Amazon Buy $129.00 Walmart Buy $139.99 Target Buy $99.99 Best Buy Buy Garmin Forerunner 35 Best Value Whos it for: The runner that wants a fashionable fitness tracker.
Not only does it come in stylish bands, but it also gives you step reminders and notifications from your phone, which is ideal for daily use.
Its pretty easy to use and reliable as well, so its great as a basic watch.
Ease of use: The watch itself is easy to flip through and see different stats using the side buttons.
It took a while to connect to the GPS, but once it did it was easy to start the run with a press of a button.
Comfort: The watch is very comfortable to wear.
The screen, which isn't too heavy, is still big enough to see stats during your run.
My one complaint is that the band is very long, so I'd trim it down so it isnt as bothersome.
Pros: The data is presented in large numbers and clear font, and pausing the watch just takes a quick press of the button (ideal for sweaty hands).
The watch vibrates and beeps after every mile, meaning you wont miss updates on your current mileage and pace.
Cons: When you pause the run, your stats are presented in a slideshow format that you have to wait for it to flip through (instead of doing it yourself).
And, since it gives you notifications for everything, the near-constant buzzing is pretty annoying.
How We Tested The Tester Hi, Im Kate, the social media manager at Reviewed and resident fitness fanatic.
As a marathoner, triathlete, and someone who gets way too excited for local 5ks, Im always on the lookout for the best way to track my workouts.
On most weekends, you can find me lining up on a starting line somewhere or out on a long run in Boston.
The Tests While researching watches to test, I looked at the most popular watches on the market in a variety of price ranges and consulted other publications that are fitness specific (like Runners World) to see what their editors thought were the best of the best.
I was able to narrow it down to 12 watches, ranging in price from $99 to $599, that fit the lifestyle of everyone from running beginner to someone who qualifies for the Boston Marathon every year.
When testing, I looked at basic setup factors at first, seeing how easy it was to set up the watch, sync with my phone and corresponding app, and the length of battery life.
I took every watch out on the same 5-mile loop twice and did a track workout with each one.
I also ended up using them during my other workouts too and they made appearances in treadmill classes, yoga, spin class, swimming laps and four different races I ran.
During all of this, I was always considering factors like comfort, aesthetic, water resistance and durability.
During my runs, I looked at how easy it was to see my stats in the middle of a run, how quickly the watch acquired GPS signal, how accurate the GPS tracking was, and how easy it was to navigate the watch for data before, during and after my run.
After every workout, I checked the data on both the watch and on the app, to check for accuracy and to see what it was like navigating information on each of them.
Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar During my runs, I looked at how easy it was to see my stats in the middle of a run, how quickly the watch acquired GPS signal, how accurate the GPS tracking was, and how easy it was to navigate the watch for data before, during and after my run.
Whats the difference between running watches and fitness trackers?
GPS running watches are the next level up from a fitness tracker.
While fitness trackers record things such as steps taken, calories burned, stairs climbed, and heart rate, a GPS watch does all that and more.
During a workout with this type of running watch, you get even more data instantly.
You can watch your running pace change as you make real-time adjustments on your run and these watches also offer more sophisticated stats like cadence, ascent, descent, training status, and heart rate zones.
You can also see how your stats perform over the course of a week or even months.
What should you look for in a running watch?
When looking for a running watch, you should ask yourself what type of runner you are.
If you're a serious runner who loves data, you should look for a watch that offers ample statistics on not only running workouts but cross training too.
That said, these watches are more expensive.
You should also take style and comfort into account, so you can wear this watch even when you arent pounding the pavement.
If you're a beginner that just wants to hold a steady pace, you should invest in a watch that offers a straightforward presentation of the basics (pace, distance, and time).
These watches also tend to be less expensive, so while you want them to be comfortable, you dont have to worry about them being super stylish for everyday wear.
Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar If you're a beginner that just wants to hold a steady pace, you should invest in a watch that offers a straightforward presentation of the basics (pace, distance, and time).
Other Running Watches We Tested Garmin Forerunner 235 Where To Buy $249.99 Amazon Buy $249.99 Walmart Buy $249.99 Target Buy $249.99 Best Buy Buy Garmin Forerunner 235 Who its for: If you're looking for a more stripped-down experience, the Forerunner 35 is a great option.
As an avid runner myself, Ive seen people wearing this watch both in treadmill classes and at marathon start lines.
This is the perfect watch for someone who wants an affordable, reliable running watch that offers tons of useful information.
Ease of use: Its very easy to figure out and explore what this watch has to offer.
You wont find yourself confused or having to think twice about where you found information beforehand.
Comfort: While the Forerunner 35 is the bulkiest out of all the Garmin watches we tested, it's still pretty comfortable to wear.
It has more of a sporty look, so this wouldnt be a top choice to wear outside of a workout.
Pros: Its tough to glance down and take in a plethora of information while youre running, but this watch makes it simple.
You can clearly see your distance, time, and pace on the main home screen thanks to the large numbers and clear font.
It quickly picks up on changes in pace, too, giving you accurate reads throughout your entire workout.
The watch also vibrates after every mile, so you won't miss what pace your last mile was.
Cons: When you pause this watch mid-run, you cant scroll through to see your stats.
This is frustrating because you can't really check in to see how far youve gone.
The race predictor feature also seemed to be giving me more credit than I deserved, as it claimed I could run a marathon 45 minutes faster than my current PR.
This feature might ring true for some people, but Id take it with a grain of salt.
Apple Watch Series 4 (40mm) Where To Buy $384.00 Amazon Buy $399.00 Walmart Buy $399.99 Target Buy $399.00 Best Buy Buy Apple Watch Series 4 (40mm) Whos it for: If youre a runner that wants a watch that can do it all (play music and send texts), then this is for you.
Ease of use: The hardest part about setting up the Apple watch was opening the box it came in.
Seriously.
This watch was so incredibly simple and easy to set up it was almost scary how smooth it went.
With just a few taps of my iPhone, I was ready to go.
Comfort: This was one of the smallest watches we tested and also one of the most comfortable.
The sleek design allows it to look good no matter if youre out for a run or at the office.
Plus, it doesnt hurt that they are wildly popular, so regardless of where you are wearing it, you wont look out of place Pros: Out of all the watches we tested, this one had the most responsive touchscreen.
In addition to the great touchscreen, the app provides enough data to satisfy an athlete but it's laid out in a way that isn't visually overwhelming.
Thanks to the turnstile button on the side, it's really easy to scroll through your data too.
Even when you're not exercising, it tracks your steps and how many stairs you climb.
Cons: When you run with this watch, you have to flick your wrist to see your stats, as the screen stays black.
It's not the kind of watch you can quickly look down at to check your pace and distance.
The numbers on the watch face are also a little too small and you have to charge it every night.
Bonus Perk: Its basically a phone on your wrist.
You can play music, text while you run, and have access to all your apps.
Plus, if you have running apps like Nike Run Club, you can use those with the watch as well.
Suunto 9 Baro Where To Buy $599.00 Amazon Buy $599.00 Best Buy Buy $599.00 B&H Buy Suunto 9 Baro Whos it for: For the serious runner who's also a triathlete and loves getting an influx of data about all of their workouts.
Ease of use: While the look of this watch is militant and almost intimidating, it's very easy to set up.
The buttons on the side of the watch and touchscreen allow you to easily scroll through data whether youre sitting at home or out on a tough run.
Comfort: This watch is absolutely gigantic.
Its built like a tank and feels indestructible, which is great when youre working out.
That said, it's uncomfortable to wear for everyday use.
Pros: Thanks to the huge watch face, it's easy to glance down and check your stats mid-run.
The large numbers are very readable and it tracks different workouts like cross-training.
Cons: This is not the best watch for someone with a small build.
Both men and women tried this on during testing and all of them had the same reaction (it's very big).
If youre looking for something sleek and discreet, then this is not the watch for you.
Bonus Perk: You can individually track a swim, bike, or run.
However, if youre a triathlete, you can also switch to the triathlon setting to track all three at once.
Polar Vantage M Where To Buy $269.95 Amazon Buy $279.95 Walmart Buy $269.95 B&H Buy Polar Vantage M Whos it for: For the serious runner who wants an intuitive watch that will present data in a readable way.
Ease of use: When it comes to the setup process, Polar products always had us jumping through an extra hoop or two.
However, once set up, this watch face ended up being my favorite, as numbers are displayed in a clear manner.
Comfort: This watch is bulky, especially underneath long sleeves and gloves.
While it has a sleek look, the watch face is just large enough that it might overwhelm someone with a smaller bone structure.
You probably wouldnt want to wear it as an everyday watch.
Pros: The stopwatch and countdown setting makes it easy to use for a track workout.
The way the watch buzzes on your wrist after your preferred distance setting means youll never miss your mile splits, either.
Cons: You have to hit two different buttons to stop and start the tracking process.
I kept getting confused and hitting the wrong one.
The buttons were also difficult to press because they sit flush with the watch.
Bonus Perk: We really like the wide variety of sport profiles.
From spinning to ballet, there are settings for all different kinds of workouts.
There's also a countdown timer you can set if you are focused on running for time and not distance.
Garmin Vvoactive 3 Music Where To Buy $249.99 Amazon Buy Garmin Vvoactive 3 Music Whos it for: For the runner who loves taking their music with them.
Ease of use: The initial setup wasn't very intuitive.
I had to closely follow the guide to understand how to get started with this watch.
Once its set, its easy to scroll through and see all of your information, although it does take a lot of digging around to figure out where everything is.
Comfort: This watch could easily be worn as an everyday watch, as it's really comfortable and stylish.
Pros: The touchscreen allows you to easily scroll through all of your stats even while youre on the go.
Plus, the main screen that you look at while you run is set up so you can quickly glance down and know your heart rate, time, pace, and distance immediately.
Cons: The touchscreen might actually be a bit too sensitive, as it paused a few times when my sleeves brushed up against it.
It was also one of the slowest watches we tested when it came to acquiring the GPS and it was difficult to find the data from your previous runs.
Bonus Perk: You can download music to the watch and listen via Bluetooth headphones.
That means you dont have to carry your phone with you.
It's perfect for someone who loves their phone, but hates carrying it around while running.
Coros Apex (42mm) Where To Buy Click for price Amazon Buy $299.99 Walmart Buy $299.99 eBay Buy Coros Apex (42mm) Whos it for: For the serious runner who loves getting tons of data about every aspect of their run.
Ease of use: This was one of the easiest watches to set up.
All you have to do is download the app and scan the code that pops up on the watch.
However, you have to use a digital knob and button to scroll through your data.
While it's similar to the Apple watch in that aspect, this knob is more sensitive and takes some getting used to.
Comfort: Neither comfortable or uncomfortable, it errs on the larger size, depending on your bone structure.
Most people could probably get away with wearing it as an everyday watch.
Pros: This watch lets you set your own intervals and rest time, which is pretty cool.
You can also hit pause and scroll through your current stats while waiting for the crosswalk or taking a break.
There's even a number of different watch faces available to download, so you can display your information exactly how you like it.
Cons: I had a tough time accessing the GPS.
Halfway through my runs, I noticed the watch would beep and auto-connect to the GPS, which made me question whether or not the data was being recorded in full.
There's also a lot of information to take in and I kept slowing down to stare at my watch and read the data it was trying to relay.
Fitbit Ionic Where To Buy $229.99 Amazon Buy $249.95 Target Buy $249.95 Best Buy Buy $249.95 Abt Buy Fitbit Ionic Whos it for: This watch is perfect for someone who wants something more than a fitness tracker, but doesn't want to spend a lot on a device that's specifically designed for running.
Ease of use: The Fitbit app is incredibly user-friendly (albeit basic).
However, the layout of information on the watch face is a bit confusing, so you really have to hunt down what youre looking for.
Comfort: The screen is wide and square.
If you're a smaller person, it may look a bit bulky.
If the Apple watch had a less sleek-looking counterpart, then this would be it.
Pros: There are a few preinstalled workouts for your entire body, which is great to use for a warm up or cool down.
You can also track other workouts like swimming and biking.
It's easy to read the information on the watch face, too, so you never have to do a double take of your stats while youre out on a run.
Cons: The screen is very finicky, as you have to flick your wrist just so to get it to light up to show your stats.
More often than not, the screen would not light up for me, so I had to press the side button to illuminate my stats pretty much every time I wanted to look at them.
This was particularly frustrating during long runs.
Bonus Perk: The cool thing about this watch is that it can connect to almost every part of your life.
Whether you're looking to log your workouts on Strava or access your Pandora stations, you can connect to all different kinds of apps.
The app is awesome for women too, as it can help you keep track of your menstrual cycle.
Polar M430 Where To Buy $159.00 Amazon Buy $161.26 Walmart Buy $172.99 Heart Rate Monitors USA Buy Polar M430 Whos it for: For the runner who wants a simple watch that tracks runs and other workouts.
Ease of use: Polar products are pretty intuitive to set up, but unlike the other watches we tested, there was always one or two stumbling blocks that tripped us up momentarily.
However, once the watch is synced with the app, it was one of the easiest and most straightforward interfaces to navigate.
Comfort: This watch is incredibly bulky and not something you'd want to wear for everyday use.
It was particularly uncomfortable to wear with long sleeves and gloves.
It's also highly noticeable, so it wouldn't be great for someone with a smaller wrist.
Pros: The interface is straightforward and easy to navigate when scrolling through the watch.
Since the screen is so big, there's a plethora of information on display.
You can even customize the watch face to display specific stats.
Cons: I struggled with the four buttons on the side of the watch.
Those buttons are the only way to control the watch and the sit flush with the device, making it tough to navigate.
Timex Ironman GPS Where To Buy $86.71 Amazon Buy $94.79 Walmart Buy $99.95 JCPenney Buy Timex Ironman GPS Whos it for: This no-nonsense running watch is great for anyone who wants to track their runs with zero frills.
Ease of use: Setup was easy and done entirely on the watch.
Since it doesn't connect to your smartphone, you have to set up the date and time yourself, which is a bit tedious.
Aside from that minor nitpick, it's super easy to flip through everything using the side buttons.
Comfort: Now, this isn't the most attractive watch on the list, but it doesn't have to be pretty to work.
It looks somewhat large on your wrist, but it's not heavy at all.
Pros: Its very easy to start and pause the run thanks to the protruding side buttons.
Battery life is also insanely longeven longer if you plan to solely use this as a running watch over a daily watch.
Cons: It took a very long time to connect to GPSsometimes over 5 minutes.
This watch beeps instead of vibrates, so it can be hard to know when you've hit your mile mark, especially if youre listening to music.
When you pause the run, the only stat youre able to see is the time, which is annoying, especially if you only want to see the distance.
During one of my runs, the run recording cut out on after attempting to resume the run.
This only happened once.
Polar M200 Where To Buy $109.27 Amazon Buy $129.99 Walmart Buy $139.00 Heart Rate Monitors USA Buy Polar M200 Whos it for: For the runner who wants a watch that tracks runs and other workouts without receiving too much data.
Ease of use: I found the setup difficult.
To charge the device you need to pull it out of the watch sleeve and plug it directly into a USB port.
The directions werent clear and it comes with a cord that looks like its used for charging, but it does nothing when you plug it in.
There were also issues with syncing and updating the watch, as it kept disconnecting.
Comfort: This watch isn't the prettiest, but its also not the ugliest.
Its large and bulky, which allows you to easily see the stats on the screen, but I wouldnt want to wear this watch other than running.
Pros: The screen size makes it easy to see the stats on the chosen screen.
Cons: The GPS doesnt kick in until the middle of your run, which stinks because that means you won't get accurate distance readings until a mile into your run.
You also have to switch screens to see the heart rate or distance, which makes it harder to take the information in at a quick glance.
Other Articles You Might Enjoy
Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
Our picks and opinions are independent from any business incentives.
While these fridges may be smaller than their standard-depth fridge, we hold them to the same standards.
Hundreds of fridges have passed through our testing labs.
We judge each one by its temperature consistency, storage space, energy efficiency, and ability to retain humidity.
By these metrics, we found that the Haier HRF15N3AGS ( available at Home Depot for $1,047.60 ) is our top-performing counter-depth fridge.
Its a french door with great temperature control and sleek looks at an affordable price.
If you want that seamless look, youre going to have to get a counter-depth fridge.
These refrigerators typically have a depth of 30 inches.
Because of their smaller size, counter-depth refrigerators give up storage space to give you more floor space, which is important in small apartments or galley kitchens.
Theres a reason why the word seamless is used to describe something that is well designed.
A seamless kitchen is one that looks like it was made just right, and just for you.
However, thats a hard feat when your fridge is jutting out several inches beyond your cabinets.
Best Overall Credit: Reviewed.com / Matthew Zahnzinger Haier HRF15N3AGS Where To Buy $1,047.60 Home Depot Buy $1,043.50 Abt Buy $1,049.99 Best Buy Buy $1,167.49 Walmart Buy Haier HRF15N3AGS Best Overall Do you love the look and functionality of french-door refrigerators, but don't have the space to actually fit one in your kitchen?
We have just the fridge for you: the Haier HRF15N3AGS.
As a counter-depth fridge, this model is considerably narrower and shallower than most french-door fridges; while that means you'll be able to fit it in a smaller kitchen, that also means you'll be able to fit less food in the fridge in the first place.
Because it's compact, the fridge itself is pretty bare-bones.
There's no ice maker or water dispenser, and the shelves aren't very adjustable.
The cooling on this fridge is top notch, though, and it easily maintained fridge and freezer temperatures of 37F and 0F throughout our week of testing.
If you don't need a lot of extra features, and want to make the most of a relatively small kitchen, the Haier HRF15N3AGS compact french-door fridge is a great pick.
How We Test At first glance, most refrigerators don't look like anything special.
All they have to do is keep your food and beverages from going bad, right?
It turns out that there's a lot more to these big, heavy, cold boxes than meets the eye, and between our specially-calibrated refrigerator lab and our rigorous testing standards, the testers and writers at Reviewed can recommend specific fridge models, and back up those recommendations with hard data and personal experience.
The Refrigerator Test Lab Credit: Reviewed.com/ Julia MacDougall Just by living in the real world, you've probably noticed that appliances operate best in certain temperature conditions.
Because an appliance involves a number of electronic and mechanical parts working together in harmony, the air in your home can inhibit certain parts from working at their best, especially in extremely hot or cold climates.
Refrigerators in particular can be very sensitive to the ambient air conditions.
To make a long story short, refrigerators pull in air and cool it down to temperatures cold enough (usually around 37F) to preserve food and inhibit bacteria growth.
In hot weather, the condenser and cooling coils have to work harder to cool the warmer air.
In cold weather, the fridge struggles to operate in general.
This is why, if you happen to have a second fridge in your burning hot or freezing cold garage, you may have noticed that the air inside that fridge is not as cold as the air inside your kitchen fridge.
To mitigate these possible temperature effects, we test each refrigerator in a special lab that conditions the air to a temperature of 72F +/- 5F, and a relative humidity of 50% RH +/- 15% RH (basically, room temperature).
This way, each fridge can get the chance to perform at its best, and doesn't get inadvertently penalized for having to deal with warmer or colder air than its competitors experienced.
The Tests Credit: Reviewed Over the course of a week (including a day for calibration), we put each refrigerator through its paces.
After filling the fridge up with water ballast (since fridges operate better when there's less empty space, we measure the fridge's temperature, humidity loss, freezing time, usable space, and energy use.
Temperature Our ideal temperature settings for the fridge and the freezer are 37F and 0F, respectively.
With fridge temperatures higher than 37F, you might have to start worrying about bacteria growth, as 40F is the start of the bacteria "danger zone".
Freezer temperatures warmer than 0F mean that the food isn't being truly frozen.
Once we set each fridge to those temperatures, we collect temperature data throughout the week's testing that tells us not only how close the temperature in the fridge and freezer are to 37F and 0F, respectively, but how close the air temperature stayed to those ideal values.
Humidity Loss For this test, we focus on the refrigerator's veggie crisper.
We add water to a floral foam ball, and then record how much of the water is evaporated away each day.
Humidity loss rates are important because if the crisper is too dry, your leafy greens will dry out very quickly.
If the crisper is too humid, then your fruits will rot.
Fridges that can strike a balance between these two extremes will help you to preserve your fruits and veggies for as long as possible.
Freezing Time Once the fridge is plugged in, we measure the time it takes for the freezer to cool down from room temperature to 32F (the freezing temperature of water).
This is a good measure of how quickly your fridge and freezer can cool down food or beverages that have just been placed inside the refrigerator.
Usable Space One of the most common refrigerator specs is the storage capacity, or the volume of the inside of the fridge, in cubic feet.
You'd think that a higher capacity means that you can fit more in that fridge, but that's not always the case.
We measure the usable space, which is how much empty space is actually available in the fridge's interior.
Any number of things can reduce the usable space in a fridgethe ice bucket and/or ice maker, a water filter, air filters, shelf arrangement, etc.
The closer the usable space value is to the fridge's stated storage capacity, the more food you can fit in your refrigerator.
Energy Use Using an electric meter, we measure the fridge's energy usage (in Watt hours) over the week of testing.
The less energy used, the more efficient that fridge is, and the more money it'll safe you on utility bills in the future.
We also use each fridge in a more casual sense so that we can answer usability questions about the fridge's specs and features, like the doors, shelves, controls, water/ice dispenser, and extras like smart connectivity, door-in-door or flexible storage options, etc.
If a refrigerator keeps the the temperature at a perfect 37F, but it's very difficult to open the doors and the control panel makes no sense, we're going to penalize that fridge with respect to its ease of use.
We test each fridge from two perspectivesfirst, from a data-driven objective point of view, and second, as a regular person trying to get at the leftover Chinese food.
The combination of these two types of experiences allows us to recommend the best fridge for you at any price point.
Samsung RF23J9011SR Where To Buy $2,695.10 AppliancesConnection Buy $2,698.20 Home Depot Buy $2,699.00 Abt Buy $2,699.99 Best Buy Buy Samsung RF23J9011SR The Samsung RF23J9011SR french-door fridge is all about customizability.
Its unique four-door design is bound to be a great conversation piece when guests enter your kitchen.
The upper two doors open to reveal the usual shelf configuration that comes with a french-door refrigerator, but the bottom two doors are more reminiscent of a side-by-side fridge, with separate compartments for each door.
The bottom left door is a freezer, and depending on your food preservation needs, the bottom right section can be either a fridge or a freezer.
In additional to those useful features, this refrigerator also runs efficiently, and can maintain cool temperatures when and where you need them.
Between its intriguing looks and solid performance, you won't regret buying the Samsung RF23J9011SR.
Kenmore Pro 79993 Where To Buy $2,699.99 Sears Buy Kenmore Pro 79993 Kenmore products with the "Pro" designation usually have a few luxury touches on top of an already solid design, and the Kenmore Pro 79993 french-door refrigerator is no different.
This fridge has one of the best crispers we've ever seen; it easily maintains humidity levels that will preserve both leafy greens and fruits/veggies.
The temperature in the fridge can run a bit warm at times, but that's easy enough to fixjust bump the temperature controls (located on the inside of the top of the fridge) down a couple degrees.
As for those other luxury touches, this fridge also comes with an additional temperature-controlled drawer that has three settings (for meat, deli, or produce), a wine rack, and rubber liners for the door shelves that make for easy clean-up after a spill.
With its classy stainless steel finish, outstanding crisper, and clever extra features, we're happy to recommend the Kenmore Pro 79993 french-door refrigerator.
Samsung RF23HTEDBSR Where To Buy $2,699.10 Home Depot Buy $2,699.00 Abt Buy $2,699.99 Best Buy Buy Samsung RF23HTEDBSR We're on the record as loving most of Samsung's refrigerators with with door-in-door storage, and the Samsung RF23HTEDBSR is no different.
This french-door refrigerator has door-in-door storage with sliding shelves on the right side door; this allows you to pull out the stuff you need most frequently without disrupting the cooling that goes on in the rest of the fridge.
In addition to that cleverly-designed storage option, this fridge is also right on target when it comes to temperature control.
While the crisper wasn't the best one we'd ever tested, the third temperature-controlled drawer option was very handy and easy to use.
If you want the benefits of door-in-door storage without having a full-sized refrigerator, be sure to check out the Samsung RF23HTEDBSR.
KitchenAid KRFC704FBS Where To Buy $4,139.10 Home Depot Buy $4,139.99 Best Buy Buy KitchenAid KRFC704FBS The KitchenAid KRFC704FBS french-door fridge is all about style.
From its black stainless finish to the wood and metal trim on the interior shelves and drawers, this fridge metaphorically struts down the runway and says "Look at me!
", and we're happy to say that this fridge is definitely worth a look.
Even better, it also has spot-on temperatures for food preservation, a retractable middle shelf that makes room for taller items, soft-close drawers, and a control panel above the ice/water dispenser that is easy to understand and operate.
For those of you out there that have some extra cash on hand and who want something more interesting than white plastic inside your refrigerator, you'll love the KitchenAid KRFC704FBS.
Bosch B21CL81SNS Where To Buy $2,604.10 AppliancesConnection Buy $2,609.10 Home Depot Buy $2,609.00 Abt Buy $2,609.99 Best Buy Buy Bosch B21CL81SNS Did you know that Bosch, the manufacturer of some of the world's quietest dishwashers, also makes refrigerators?
The Bosch B21LC81SNS is a counter-depth french-door fridge that looks like it belongs on the cover of a design magazine.
While it doesn't have a through-door water dispenser, that actually makes gives it a cleaner, more streamlined look that would otherwise be broken up by the presence of said water dispenser.
Similar to their dishwashers, Bosch doesn't skimp when it comes to this fridge's capabilities.
It did very well reaching and maintaining our preferred fridge and freezer temperatures of 37F and 0F, respectively.
While the crisper wasn't the best one that's ever come through our labs, beneath the crisper lies an extra temperature-controlled drawer that can be used for a variety of foodstuffs.
Whether you buy this fridge as part of a package of Bosch 800 series appliances or by itself, you'll appreciate its looks and its cooling.
Electrolux EI23BC82SS Where To Buy $3,233.10 AppliancesConnection Buy $3,239.00 Abt Buy Electrolux EI23BC82SS Electrolux, like Bosch, is an appliance company whose products tend to straddle the line between luxury and high-end, and the Electrolux EI23BC82SS counter-depth french-door fridge is no different.
One feature that really sets it apart from its competitors is the additional drawer with a temperature that you can dial in, rather than having to pick from two or three preset temperature options.
This added storage flexibility can be a real boon if you have no real estate left in your crisper.
As for performance, this fridge's temperature hit its marks in the fridge, but had less success in the freezer.
We noticed that the temperature swings above and below 0F were large enough that to avoid freezer burn, we'd recommend setting the freezer temperature a couple of degrees below zero.
Like the Bosch B21LC81SNS, the Electrolux EI23BC82SS is also usually part of an appliance package, but it can also be purchased by itself.
Haier HRQ16N3BGS Where To Buy $1,042.00 AppliancesConnection Buy $1,047.60 Home Depot Buy $1,043.50 Abt Buy $1,049.99 Best Buy Buy Haier HRQ16N3BGS Haier knocks it out of the park again with the Haier HRQ16N3BGS, a unique french-door fridge with four doors.
When it comes to temperature, this fridge does pretty wellthe fridge can run a little warm at times, so be sure to bump down the temperature settings by a couple of degrees, but the freezer does just fine.
As for its fun, four-door design, the top two doors open to reveal the refrigerator, and the bottom two doors are for two separate freezer compartments.
The freezer only has drawers, rather than shelves, so you won't be able to fit a frozen pizza box in here, but most smaller items and prepackaged meals should be fine.
Because of this freezer limitation, though, we think that the Haier HRQ16N3BGS is best for homes with smaller families and/or a very organized person who does the grocery shopping.
Frigidaire FGSC2335TF Where To Buy $1,523.10 AppliancesConnection Buy $1,529.10 Home Depot Buy $1,699.00 Best Buy Buy Frigidaire FGSC2335TF With the Frigidaire FGSC2335TF, you're getting a lot of bang for your buck.
While it may look like a normal counter-depth side-by-side fridge with a smudge-proof stainless steel finish and through-door water and ice dispensing out the outside, on the inside, there are a few neat features that really add to the overall value of the fridge.
Once you open the door, the clever design touches become apparent: there's a third cold drawer (in addition to two crispers) with adjustable temperature settings, multiple lights throughout the refrigerator, and wine/bottle holders on the bottom of the refrigerator door.
While both the fridge and the freezer run a little hot, you can easily bump the temperature down on the control panel to compensate.
With this pleasantly surprising feature set and low price, the Frigidaire FGSC2335TF is an easy choice to make.
Related Articles The Best Refrigerators The Best French-Door Refrigerators The Best Stainless-Steel Fridges Under $2000
The 7 best deals and sales you can get online this Friday Save on the things you actually want.
(Photo: AncestryDNA / Reviewed) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA Todays newsroom and any business incentives.
Happy Friday!
We are so close to the weekend I can almost taste it, and that calls for a celebration with some online shopping, right?
In my expert opinion, this is the best time to find deals and sales because retailers know you have more time to shop, so they try to lure you in with a low price.
More: 16 amazing deals you can get at Nordstrom's huge spring sale But it can be tricky to distinguish between a good deal and a low price on a not-so-great product.
That's where we come in.
Here at Reviewed, we're expert product testers and deal hunters, so not only can we identify a good product but we also try to find them at the best price, so you can get your money's worth.
Today, we found incredible sales on AncestryDNA, Nordstrom clothes, kitchen knives, and more.
1.
Save 30%: The most popular DNA test kit You already know you're part bargain-hunter, but what else makes you, you?
(Photo: Ancestry / YinYang-Getty Images) Happy National DNA Day!
Well almost.
It's technically April 25, but in celebration of this totally real holiday, AncestryDNA is offering their popular DNA test kits for $30 off at Amazon.
We love this DNA test kit because it has more than 10 million users, so AncestryDNA can pinpoint your heritage to more than 350 regions and you have a higher chance of being connected to a long-lost relative.
And since the AncestryDNA database is always growing, theyre able to more precisely pinpoint your exact heritage over time.
You can also get the DNA kit with its new Traits feature for just $10 more at any time.
The same sale is running at Amazon, too.
Get the AncestryDNA testing kit at Ancestry.com for $69 (Save $30) 2.
Save up to 50%: Nordstrom's Spring Sale Upgrade your spring wardrobe at an incredible price.
(Photo: Gal Meets Glam, Nordstrom, and Anthropologie) Springtime is the perfect time to Marie Kondo your wardrobejust so you can fill it with the newest trends and cuter clothes.
And what better way to give your closet an upgrade than a Nordstrom spring sale?
Right now, the retailer is discounting top brands like Madewell, J.Crew, BP., Nike, and adidas for as much as 50% off now through April 22.
Naturally, we've already shopped the Nordstrom Spring Sale and found the best deals on popular brands that you're going to want to add to your cart immediately.
I'm particularly obsessed with this Gal Meets Glam jumpsuit ($106.80), Zella leggings ($32.40), and Capri Blue candles ($24).
Shop the Nordstrom Spring Sale 3.
Save 23%: The best grill thermometer at its lowest price Start grilling season off right with an incredible probe thermometer.
(Photo: Reviewed / Lindsay D. Mattison) If you really care about grilling, then you're going to want a probe thermometer.
They are superior to traditional digital meat thermometers because they allow you to constantly monitor your meat's temperature without opening up the grill and letting out precious heat.
The ThermoWorks ChefAlarm is the best probe thermometer we've ever tested, and right now you can get it for $15 off as part of an open box sale.
We love this thermometer because it the most accurate probe we tested, and it's also the only one that you can calibrate.
Get the ThermoWorks ChefAlarm at ThermoWorks for $49.28 (Save $14.72) 4.
Save 25%: Our favorite affordable single-serve espresso maker Transform your home into a mini coffee shop.
(Photo: Nespresso) Nothing feels fancier than sipping on an espresso at your favorite coffee shop.
But you can also get the same flavors at home, so you don't have to spend $5 on coffee every day.
The Nespresso Essenza Mini is the best affordable single-serve espresso machine we've ever tested and right now it's even more affordable with a $30 discount in the colors red and lime.
We loved this device because you get the same incredible cup of coffee as the more expensive models, but it just doesn't hold as much water as the larger models and you'll have to empty the used capsule holder more frequently.
Get the Nespresso Essenza Mini at Amazon for $89.99 (Save $30) 5.
Save an extra 50%: Anthropologie sale on sale through the weekend Get an extra 50% off those clothes you've been eying for months.
(Photo: Anthropologie) Sale on sale isn't usually the best.
You're digging through the pieces from last season that retailers are desperately trying to get rid of.
But 50% off sale at Anthropologie is a different story.
Anthropologie is quite the aspirational brand filled with high-quality clothes and styles that are usually just out of budget.
So if you can save big on something you were eyeing months ago, you might as well go for it.
After sifting through the sale, I'm absolutely obsessed with this simple Pennbrooke top ($19.98), this cool Kelsey woven circle bag ($29.98), and this trendy pair of Houndstooth pants ($29.98).
Be warned: since it's a sale on sale, these items will sell fast, so you need to act fast.
Shop Anthropologie and get an extra 50% off sale items 6.
Save 20%: Highly-rated Wsthof knives Change the way you chop your food.
(Photo: Reviewed / Lindsay D. Mattison) In my opinion, a kitchen is only as good as its sharpest knife.
Seriously, a dull or cheap kitchen knife makes it incredibly difficult to chop, slice, or dice the ingredients for your meal.
Wsthof makes the best paring knife and the best boning knife we've ever tested and with good reason.
We found that both knives aced all of our tests and made it incredibly easy to have control over whatever you're doing from peeling apples to deboning chicken.
Right now, you can get either for 20% off.
7.
Save 30%: An incredible soundbar to upgrade your TV Add serious sound to your next Game of Thrones binge.
(Photo: Samsung) Let's be honest: The sound quality that comes from even the nicest TVs (I'm looking at your OLEDs) still aren't the best.
But thanks to soundbars, we no longer need to invest in a surround sound system to seriously upgrade our viewing quality.
Right now, you can get an incredible Samsung soundbar for $110 off.
While we haven't tested this specific soundbar, we did test the base model of the Samsung HW-N series soundbars and really liked that it was reasonably priced for the sound and subwoofer, especially with Samsung TVs.
This higher tier model has a few more bells and whistles that make it even better with more speakers and better sound quality.
At this low price, we think it's worth making the upgrade.
Get the Samsung HW-N650 Panoramic Soundbar at Massdrop for $289 (Save $110) The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest deals, reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/04/19/best-online-deals-get-incredible-savings-nordstrom-ancestrydna-and-amazon-before-weekend/3517912002/
Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
Our picks and opinions are independent from any business incentives.
Whether youre an experienced home chef or you dont know your way around a kitchen, cooking for yourself or trying to feed a family, a good meal kit can make dinner as convenient as it is delicious.
These are the best meal kit delivery services we tested, ranked in order: To come to this conclusionand to help you decide which services are worth your time and moneyI spent three months testing and retesting 11 meal kits, cooking more than 40 different dinners across three different kitchens on my own busy weeknights.
I evaluated for quality of ingredients, recipe accuracy and variety, difficulty, speed, packaging, cleanup, taste, and moreeverything the average busy person (like me) considers when it comes time to make dinner.
Since Blue Aprons launch in 2012, a seemingly endless number of competitors have emerged, each with unique gimmicks and recipesfrom vegan to pre-prepped, Southern barbecue to Martha Stewart-approved .
We found that our favorite service, Home Chef , forgoes gimmick in favor of providing consistently excellent recipes, quality ingredients, and enough variety to satisfy most diets.
Browsing through an ocean of meal kit delivery services can easily get overwhelmingyou might eventually just give up and start ordering dinner from UberEats or GrubHub.
If youre determined to say goodbye to takeout and want to establish a healthy home-cooking habit, finding the right meal kit delivery service that fits your diet and budget is crucialand were here to help.
Best Overall Credit: Home Chef Top 5 Meal Kit Delivery ServicesThe Short Version Just want to know which service you should order based on our testing?
These are our top picks and why we chose them, abridged for easy reading.
Or feel free to scroll down for full review of all 10 services that we tested.
Best Overall The best meal kit subscription delivery service for you is probably Home Chef.
High-quality ingredients, well-written recipes, and fantastic flavors make the Home Chef experience one youll want to integrate into your weeknightsand the services organization makes it incredibly easy to do so.
You may just impress yourself with how good your Home Chef meals turn out.
See Home Chef's plans and pricing - and take $80 off with Reviewed Best for Families Whether youre cooking for picky eaters or need a plan that fits into your busy schedule, Plated can probably help you.
The services large portions, huge recipe variety, and cook time accuracy make it our top choice for familiesor those of us who love to have leftovers.
See Plated's plans and pricing Best for Vegetarians While not an entirely vegetarian service, Sun Basket offers a huge variety of quick, flavorful plant-based meals that will satisfy vegetarians and omnivores alike.
Their ingredients are largely organic, and their recipes are some of the fastest we tested.
See Sun Basket's plans and pricing Meal kit giant HelloFresh featured our very favorite recipe of the entire experience and earned high marks for flavor overall.
While their recipes werent always quick to make, I always had fun in the process.
See HelloFresh's plans and pricing Co-led by lifestyle and cooking icon Martha Stewart, Martha and Marley Spoon offers meals as sophisticated, simple, and American as its namesake.
However, we did note smaller-than-average portions and little variety across each weekly menu.
See Martha and Marley Spoon's plans and pricing Price / serving (2 people) $9.95 $11.95 $11.99 $8.99 $10.25 Price / serving (4 people) $9.95 $9.95 $10.99 $7.49 $8.90 Gluten-free options* Vegetarian options* Vegan options* Nut-free options* Dairy-free options* Meals offered / week 16 20 18 12 10 Time to table 45 44 40 46 50 * NOTE: The service offers at least two options of this dietary preference each week.
Credit: Home Chef / Jackson Ruckar Best OverallHome Chef Cost: Visit HomeChef.com for updated pricing.
When tested, meals were $9.95 per serving, regardless of frequency or quantity.
Meals can serve 2, 4, or 6 people.
Favorite meal: Farmhouse Fried Chicken with Mashed Potatoes, Green Onion Gravy, and Corn Like its name suggests, Home Chef provides customers with the tools necessary to become true masters of the kitchen.
From Home Chefs fresh, high-quality ingredients to well-written recipes that break down intimidating cooking methods into digestible steps, everything about this service made me feel like I was preparing restaurant-worthy (or at least guest-worthy) meals without running around like a maniac.
Home Chef's fried chicken recipe came out great.
I could hardly believe I did it myself.
Take Home Chefs Farmhouse Fried Chicken with Mashed Potatoes, Green Onion Gravy, and Corn.
While browsing for meals on the companys website, I initially saw fried chicken and laughed.
How could a food so many people find impossible to cook at home be executed well in the context of a meal kit?
I was shockedand thrilled!to find that Home Chefs recipe yielded wonderfully even, juicy chicken with nary an oil burn in sight.
I could hardly believe I did it myself.
If the words fried chicken make you clutch your heart in health-related fear, dont worryHome Chefs offerings are diverse enough to accommodate almost any diet, including vegetarians and vegans.
It offers 16 dinner options per week, as well as a handful of lunch and snack choices as add-ons to its main menu.
I was impressed by the depth of flavor in the Yang-Yang Beef with Shishito Peppers, a lighter alternative to traditional Chinese food, and loved the Hot Honey Salmon with Zucchini and Tomatoes for its summer simplicity.
Vegetarian meals, like the Wild Rice and Brussels Sprouts Harvest Bowl, were on the table in less than 30 minutes.
Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar Most Home Chef meals I tested, like the Wild Rice and Brussels Sprouts Harvest Bowl, were restaurant-worthy creations.
At the heart of Home Chefs success is its organization.
Any experienced cook knows that preparation is half the battle, and this company knows it, too.
Ingredients are divided per meal into labeled bags that easily slide into the fridge, recipe instructions are consistently clear, time estimates are largely accurate, and the website is easy to navigate, allowing you the freedom to choose meals and skip delivery weeks at will.
This clarity and organization made for faster fridge-to-table times than a lot of the competition and saved me the stress of forgetting ingredients and re-reading recipes four times over.
Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar Home Chef's organization and labeled meal bags made finding the ingredients I needed very simple, saving me time in the long run.
Home Chef would be wise to incorporate more biodegradable packaging into their existing model, but I struggle to find any other criticism of this excellent service.
We liked it so much, we've partnered with Home Chef to offer Reviewed readers $20 off their first 4 orders.
Visit HomeChef.com and take $80 with Reviewed Credit: Plated / Cassidy Olsen Best for FamiliesPlated Cost: Visit Plated.com for updated pricing.
When tested, meals were $11.95 per serving for 2 people, $9.95 per serving for 3 to 4 people, regardless of frequency.
Different plans are available.
Favorite meal: Beef and Grape Tomato Rag Over Summer Squash Noodles If youve got four or more people to feed, including picky eaters and those who always go back for seconds, Plated is our choice for you.
With 20 different meals to choose from each week, this service has both the largest menu and some of the largest portions I saw among all the meal kits I tested, making it great for families.
Plated meals are filling but not heavy, and at least three meals a week are vegetarian.
Plated meals are filling without being heavy, and while many rely on a traditional meat, grain, and veggie combination, at least three meals a week are entirely vegetarian.
In my testing, I was impressed by how quickly dinners like Crunchy Pork Milanese with Honey Mustard and Arugula came togetherand while the flavors were often not as complex as those of the competition, they were always strong, and never bland.
This is great news for parents who want to eat well, but dont want to bother preparing meals their kids wont enjoy, too.
Another reason Plated is great for families?
It has extremely flexible policies when skipping a delivery, changing delivery days, and altering meal boxes, making it easier for you to fit them into your familys hectic schedule.
Unfortunately, their packaging is plastic-heavyso extremely eco-friendly customers may want to look elsewherebut packaging is a consistent issue with most meal kit services that has yet be solved entirely.
Visit Plated.com Credit: Sun Basket / Cassidy Olsen Best for VegetariansSun Basket Cost: Visit SunBasket.com for updated pricing.
When tested, meals were $11.99 per serving for 2 people, $10.99 per serving for 4 people, regardless of frequency.
Different plans are available.
Favorite meal: Chicken Yakitori with Broccoli and Rice Although Sun Basket isnt only for vegetarians, the organic service offers a wide variety of unique, meat-free meals that will satisfy vegetarian and vegan customers alike.
Fast Mediterranean Flatbreads with Beet Salad and Skordalia and Simple Tempeh Curry Stir-Fry with Black Rice were among its current vegan offerings when we put this story together.
And Sun Basket makes a great alternative to Purple Carrot, the vegan meal kit service that I had a number of issues with during testing.
Sun Basket offers tasty options to suit vegetarians, vegans, and omnivores alike.
I was impressed by how easily my Sun Basket meals came together, relying on just a few key ingredients and spice blends to do most of the heavy lifting, which meant spending less time cooking and more time enjoying my food with my boyfriend.
Sun Baskets meals also lean heavily into South and East Asian flavors, but this is partly why its such a strong service for vegetariansit tends to avoid the carb-centric dinners that are so often the only options for people who avoid meat.
Because Im a reformed vegetarian, Sun Baskets omnivore meals were still my favoriteChicken Yakitori with Broccoli and Rice and Quick Curried Beef Khow Suey with Ramen Noodles were simple, filling meals that took about 30 minutes to prepare.
Some flavors, such as the khow suey or salam spice, could have been stronger to distinguish dishes from one another.
My one issue with Sun Basket?
Their cancellation policy is the worst Ive seen.
My one issue with Sun Basket?
Their cancellation policy is the worst Ive seen, requiring you to call an impossible-to-find number and speak to a customer service representative rather than emailing or clicking a button on your account.
Its a dishonest, unhelpful way to retain customers and I hope they do away with it soon.
Its also important to note that while Sun Baskets ingredients are largely organic, the company is not certified organic like Green Chef, meaning it can swap in non-organic ingredients when necessary and offer a consistently large menu.
In high school and early college, I worked at an organic juice bar and cafe that similarly forwent organic certification for a larger menu.
Its a trade-off that I was (and am) willing to make for variety and high-quality food year-round, but devout organic eaters may not be interested in a service that lacks certification.
Visit SunBasket.com How We Tested Im Cassidy Olsen, and I love to cookso much so that I write about it for a living!
But because Im young, busy, and new to the nine-to-five life, making a proper dinner for myself each night can still be daunting.
Sometimes Ill have bursts of motivation and bookmark 10 different New York Times Cooking recipes for myself, but most of the time I dont have the creative energy (or regular energy) to go shopping for new meals and actually make them.
Also, trying new recipes can be flat-out hard!
As much as I love cooking, Im no expert, and I dont want a bunch of expensive ingredients to go to waste because I wasnt sure what I was doing.
Basically, Im the perfect candidate for testing meal kit delivery services.
I have the cooking and food knowledge to know what works, but the attitude of a very tired person who craves convenience and simplicity.
My boyfriend also conveniently loves to eat and not go grocery shopping, so he acted as a second tester when it came to reviewing the meals themselves.
Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar I made over 40 dinners from 11 different meal kit delivery servicesand have the recipe cards to prove it.
The Testing After testing the most popular meal kit delivery services on the market back in 2016, we recently decided our rankings might need an overhaulin two years, many services have grown to cater to more diets, prices have largely fallen, and new competition has emerged.
So, I re-tested all the existing contenders along with some new entries that were growing in popularity, including celebrity chef-approved services Martha and Marley Spoon and Chefd.
During our testing, Chefd was acquired by True Food Innovation and rolled into their True Chef meal kit serviceand since True Chef doesnt deliver nationally, I left it out of our final ranking.
That same reason is why we omitted new services like AmazonFresh that are still in beta or only deliver to certain markets.
We also didnt test services like Veestro that deliver pre-prepared meals instead of true meal kits.
Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar I tested meal kits across three months in three different kitchens, all with my own cookware.
For each service, I ordered one box of three, two-serving meals through their website just like a regular customer, choosing a diverse variety of meals when available.
I prepared each meal on a weeknight for myself and my boyfriend and evaluated for quality of ingredients, recipe accuracy and variety, difficulty, speed, cleanup, taste, and more.
I also considered cost, how eco-friendly and user-friendly the kits packaging was, and how easy (or difficult) it was to cancel the service after we were done testing.
I scored and compared each meal in a large spreadsheet and kept detailed notes in an accompanying document like a true food nerd.
I also re-tested our winner, Home Chef, to make sure they were deserving of the title.
Things to Know About Meal Kits Even if youve already decided which meal kit delivery service is right for you, chances are youre still confused about what your first box actually entails.
While each service has different approaches to ordering, packaging, and delivery, Ive found that most services have some baseline similarities.
Youll get a discount on your first box.
Almost every service we tried offers a large discount on the first box.
While this is an awesome benefit for new customers, dont let it fool you into thinking one service is much cheaper than the others.
Our price breakdown for each service reflects the price youll be regularly paying per meal, disregarding initial discounts.
Your box is good to sit on your doorstep until the end of the day.
Because delivery windows for these services are as broad as a full day, they package ingredients to last outside your actual refrigerator until the end of the day (i.e.
when you get home from work and errands).
Most often, produce and dry ingredients will be grouped in bags above ice packs, and any meat will be fully insulated below ice packs.
The packaging is going to be bulky and cumbersome.
As much as certain services pride themselves on eco-friendly boxes, theres no way around the massive amounts of packaging that go into meal kit delivery.
Disposing of the large, insulated cardboard boxes and ice packs can be a hassle, and you need to stay on top of them lest you develop a small mountain in some corner of your home.
Because I moved apartments mid-testing, I was already surrounded by cardboard and trash from new furniture, so I incorporated the boxes into my regular dumpster and recycling runs.
Recipes are usually seasonal, but favorites are often repeated.
Every meal kit service has a different approach to repeating meals, but most try to make recipes as seasonal as possible to keep you from getting bored and to guarantee fresh, sustainable produce.
That being said, most companies make note of their most popular meals and offer them many weeks a year, regardless of season.
If you really love one of your meals, hold onto the recipe card for future reference so you can request it againor make it yourself using store-bought ingredients.
Cook your meals soon after receiving them.
Meal kit ingredients are typically fresh and high-quality, but theres nothing special preserving themtheyre just like what you buy from the grocery store.
Because of transit times, they might actually be older than what you buy from the store!
Thats why its important to give them priority in your fridge and cook them as soon as possible.
Use common sense when approaching certain dishesseafood, fresh greens, and chicken should be prepared first, while red meat, pork, and harder produce can last a few more days.
Freeze any meat you wont be eating in the first few days after receiving your box.
Cancel at least one full week before you want your last box.
Most meal kit companies have solid customer service and flexible cancellation policies, but its important to consider the long-term logistics that go into assembling your box.
If youre interested in canceling your subscription, make sure to do it at least one full week before you want your last box.
If you want to skip a week or take a break from deliveries, most services allow you to make those selections, too.
Many meal kits are now offered in grocery stores, too.
To combat the high operational costs of delivery-only services, many meal kit companies have partnered with (or been acquired by) major food stores and are now offering their kits in the grocery aisles.
While we only tested delivery services, many of the recipes we tried are also available in stores for equal or lower prices.
If youre curious to try a meal before you subscribe to a service, or youre willing to regularly visit the grocery store for your meal kits, these are good options to investigate at your local chains like Stop & Shop, Safeway, and Kroger.
Before you order, youll also want to make sure you have some essential cooking tools at the ready.
Here are our recommendations: I would also recommend having a good cast iron pan or a Dutch oven handy, although I never needed to use both together for any meal kit dinner.
If youre entirely new to cooking and meal kits are just your gateway into the kitchen, these tools will be all you need to prepare amazing meals for many years to come.
Other Meal Kit Services We Tested Though we feel that our top picks should satisfy most people, the competition has some benefits, too.
Here are our reviews of the other meal kit delivery services that we tested.
Credit: HelloFresh / Cassidy Olsen HelloFresh Cost: Visit HelloFresh.com for updated pricing.
When tested, meals were $8.99 per serving for 2 people ordering at least 3 meals a week, $7.49 per serving for 3+ people ordering at least 3 meals a week.
Different plans are available.
Favorite meal: Bnh Mi Burgers with Vietnamese-style Lemongrass Pork and Sriracha Mayo The wallet-friendly HelloFresh is the markets biggest name after Blue Apron, and its easy to see whybig portions, affordable prices, and straightforward recipes make the service incredibly approachable.
Although I found that HelloFresh meals were rarely on the table in the 30 or so minutes the recipe cards promised, I was consistently impressed by the flavor.
Its Bnh Mi Burger, which puts an American twist on the classic Vietnamese sandwich with lightly pickled veggies and sriracha mayo, is absolutely out of this worldits by far my favorite meal of testing, and its the only meal kit recipe Ive made again for myself.
While HelloFresh offers more variety in their meals than it was two years ago, it still doesnt have consistent vegan offerings, and it struggles with clarity and ease-of-use on their websiteI accidentally selected a premium meal of Balsamic Nectarine Duck Breasts and was surprised to find a second invoice for the price difference in my inbox.
However, changes in these areas might be coming in the futureHelloFresh acquired certified organic and gluten-free service Green Chef in March, which could help them provide more reasonably-priced options for those following organic, vegan, gluten-free, paleo, and keto diets.
A spokesperson for the company said that there are "no expected changes to HelloFresh or Green Chef anywhere in the near future."
Visit HelloFresh.com Credit: Martha and Marley Spoon / Cassidy Olsen Martha and Marley Spoon Cost: Visit MarleySpoon.com for updated pricing.
When tested, meals were $10.25 per serving for 2 people ordering 3 meals a week, $8.89 per serving for 4 people ordering at least 3 meals a week.
Different plans are available.
Favorite meal: Chipotle-Spiced Steak with Potato Salad and Charred Snap Peas The oddly-named Martha and Marley Spoon is actually a partnership between German meal kit company Marley Spoon and lifestyle mogul Martha Stewartand her influence over the brand is evident.
Meals like Chipotle-Spiced Steak with Potato Salad and Charred Snap Peas and Garlicky Chicken with Dilly Beans and Corn on the Cob are simple, sophisticated, and downright American, just like the homemaking queen.
While I was consistently impressed by the flavor and inventiveness of Martha and Marley Spoons side dishes, I found less to celebrate in the mains, which were typically plain animal proteins.
The service is also far from ideal for those with dietary restrictionsin typical American fashion, every recipe revolves around an animal protein or heavy carbs.
To keep calories from spinning out of control, most Martha and Marley Spoon meals have smaller portions than those from other services.
Oddly, this service is one of the only ones we tested that doesnt publically archive their recipes online to access at any time.
The service did score points with me for its eco-friendly packaging, made almost entirely from biodegradable materials.
Most of its recipes were also easy to follow for new cooks.
If youre looking for meals with classic American flavors and high-quality ingredients, Martha and Marley Spoon might be a good option for you.
Want to learn more?
Read my full review of Martha and Marley Spoon.
Visit MarleySpoon.com Credit: Blue Apron / Cassidy Olsen Blue Apron Cost: Visit BlueApron.com for updated pricing.
When tested, meals were $9.99 per serving for 2 people, $7.99 per serving for 4 people ordering 3 meals a week.
Different plans are available.
Favorite meal: Crispy Cheese Quesadillas with Poblano Pepper and Queso Blanco Despite the success of its competition, the original meal kit service Blue Apron still has some fight left in them.
Time and experience has allowed Blue Apron to keep prices low, perfect time estimates on recipes, and offer fun wine-pairing and gift options.
Unfortunately, it seems like some of that time would be better spent on diversifying its menu and making recipes taste better.
In my testing, I had consistent problems with flavors and ratios being offoregano overpowered orecchiette, jalapeno overwhelmed peach salsa, and my polenta was in desperate need of salt, spice, or anything to make it more than a bland mush.
My favorite meal of the bunch was a simple quesadilla that really didnt require a recipe.
With only eight meal options per week, Blue Apron also offers one of the smallest menus of any service.
I appreciate how easy and quick my Blue Apron meals were to make, but disorganized packaging, limited menus, and recipes riddled with problems are preventing me from awarding the classic service a higher ranking.
Visit BlueApron.com Credit: Terra's Kitchen / Cassidy Olsen Terras Kitchen Cost: Visit TerrasKitchen.com for updated pricing.
When tested, meals were $9.99 to $17.99 per serving, depending on the meal.
Minimum order is $63.49 per vessel.
Favorite meal: Bacon, Kale and Caramelized Onion Pasta Bowl With an eye toward sustainability, Terras Kitchen ships customers their meal kits in a large, reusable vessel thats designed to be picked up and returned the next business day following delivery.
While this practice is eco-friendly in theory, I found every other aspect of the companys packaging to be disorganized and plastic-heavy, which outweighs any good that comes from the reusable nature of the vessel.
First, there are no clear directions about how to return the vessel evident on the package itself, which led me to miss my first pick-up attemptsthats a lot of wasted fossil fuel.
Second, all the smaller containers within the vessel are made of single-use plastic and arent organized by meal, which led to a lot scrambling around in the fridge trying to find the right ingredients for each meal.
Another point of pride for Terras Kitchen is its pre-chopped ingredients, which are designed to save customers a lot of time and hassle when cooking.
While this certainly helped me get meals on the table faster, Im skeptical of pre-chopped vegetables for a lot of reasons, including shorter shelf life, loss of nutrients, and potential for contamination.
I dont mind taking the time to chop a carrotI would prefer to save time with more organized meal bags.
The meals themselves were very easy and fairly tasty, but wholly unremarkable.
Terras Kitchens packaging problems, compounded by a cluttered website full of meals that vary wildly in price, far outweigh the services convenience in my book.
However, those with limited mobility or difficulty using their hands may find their pre-chopped ingredients to be a lifesaver.
Visit TerrasKitchen.com Credit: Green Chef / Cassidy Olsen Green Chef Cost: Visit GreenChef.com for updated pricing.
When tested, meals were $10.49 to $14.99 per serving, depending on your plan.
Favorite meal: Sweet Potato and Mushroom Tacos with Cotija Cheese Crisps and Slaw Our former top pick for meal kits, Green Chef, didnt impress me the way it did our previous reviewer.
Like Sun Basket, Green Chef promises organic ingredients, certified gluten-free meals, and health-minded recipes for all types of dietshowever, this services plans are much more restrictive, only allowing you to choose from a handful of meals per week.
This is likely due in part to Green Chefs status as certified organic, meaning that every single ingredient they include in their meal kits is organic, no exceptions.
While this is great news for people who abide by strict organic diets, its rather limiting in the scope of food that Green Chef can consistently provide to its customers for a reasonable priceit can be hard to source many organic ingredients year-round.
Sun Basket, on the other hand, is not certified organic, meaning they can offer a larger menu and swap in non-organic ingredients when organic simply isnt available.
As I wrote before, its a trade-off that Im willing to make for variety, but devout organic eaters may prefer the limited menu if it means certified organic ingredients.
As someone who will eat anything and everything, I originally chose Green Chefs omnivore plan but noticed that the gluten-free meals that week were more appealing and opted into that plan instead.
While I received an email about a one-time change to my plan in my inbox that afternoon, I had to go hunting for a receipt to find that there was an extra charge of $7 for going gluten-free.
These sneaky price differences can be confusing for users who just want the meals that sound the best to them, not the ones Green Chef decides they should be eating.
The flavor profiles of most meals were all over the placemixing Thai with Southwestern and so onand some directions were clearly incorrect on one of the recipe cards.
However, all of the meals tasted just fine in the end.
As Green Chef was acquired by HelloFresh in March, its a possibility that they may soon have the resources to broaden their menu and offer better, more consistent recipes, but these changes are necessary before I would recommend them to a friend.
Visit GreenChef.com Credit: Purple Carrot / Cassidy Olsen Purple Carrot Cost: Visit PurpleCarrot.com for updated pricing.
When tested, meals were $12.00 per serving, fixed.
Different plans are available.
Favorite meal: Japanese Bento Box with Miso-Glazed Tofu and Yu Choy I wanted to love Purple Carrot, I really did.
Sadly, my experience with this vegan service was riddled with confusing recipes, bland flavors, missing ingredients, and altogether bad meals.
Although I typically eat meat, I was a vegetarian for a period of my life and regularly enjoy vegan meals with my friends, so this isnt coming from someone who needs to always eat animal products.
I truly hated two out of the three meals I received from Purple Carrotspecifically, the Buffalo Cauliflower Salad with Farro and Ranch Dressing, and the Chilaquiles Salsa Verde with Tomatillos and Black Beans.
The salad involved an entire head of lettuce and only a handful of spicy cauliflower pieces tossed together with a bit of ranch, an overwhelmingly bland, damp meal that left me hungry.
The chilaquilesthe recipe for which instructed me to blend hot, raw onion and tomato puree in a hand blenderwas difficult to make and nearly-inedible in the end thanks to its overpowering onion flavor and soggy tortillas.
The redeeming meal of the bunch, a Japanese Bento Box with Miso-Glazed Tofu and Yu Choy, severely lacked texture, as well as one of its central ingredients, yu choy, which was unceremoniously replaced with broccoli in my box.
These meals actually felt like what a huge carnivore imagines vegan eating to be likemushy, bland, and calorie-deficient.
I know for a fact that vegan meals can (and should!)
have more flavor and texture than any of these dishes did.
Visit PurpleCarrot.com Credit: Peach Dish / Reviewed Peach Dish Cost: Visit PeachDish.com for updated pricing.
When tested, meals were around $12.50 per serving, although prices vary per meal Favorite meal: Kevin Clarks Comfy Chicken If it isnt evident by its name, Peach Dish is the Southern comfort food-themed meal kit that claims to bring authentic Southern recipes to your doorstep each week.
While Im no expert when it comes to food from the American South, its hard to tell who exactly this meal kit is for.
Even non-Southerners can tell that most of the services recipeslike Turkey Mushroom Burgers and Italian Wedding Souparent very Southern, and out-of-towners like me arent likely to find the richness of the actual Southern recipes like Chicken and Dumplings to be appealing on a weekly basis.
Ultimately, its a confusing meal kit with time-consuming recipes that are simply too much for regular cooking.
Too much butter, too much milk, and too much flour in most recipes for health-minded people to enjoy, yet not enough flavor to make the indulgence worth it.
With only eight meals offered per week, variety is also hard to come by, so I ended up with two creamy chicken dishes and a shrimp pasta bowl in my box.
While none of my meals were inedible, I felt crampy after eating the leftovers from the shrimp dish and noticed that some of the milk provided had spoiled within four days of delivery.
Peach Dish was very responsive to my concerns and assured me that their food is always held to high standards and packaged to survive transportation, so its likely my illness was just due to the richness of the food not agreeing with mebut it was an unfortunate end to my testing.
Visit PeachDish.com If you're shopping for the best ways to make dinner, check out our guide, The Best Cookware Sets.
The ghost of Roy Orbison gets a new partner, Buddy Holly CLOSE A hologram of Roy Orbison is currently on tour alongside a live concert orchestra.
Harrison Hill, USA TODAY LOS ANGELES The ghost of the late rocker Roy Orbison mysteriously rises from the bottom of a stage, slowly transforming itself into what appears to be rather lifelike.
Sure, if you let your camera zoom in on him, you can see the video lines, but from several feet away, the laser projected hologram almost looks real.
The ghost of Roy Orbison on stage (Photo: Jefferson Graham) Chalk up a win for technology.
The next question is why?
"To use the technology to create interesting ways of celebrating the legacies of great artists," says Brian Becker, the CEO of BASE Hologram.
His company, which looks to use the technology to bring back great performers to our lives, or to tour existing ones who may not be up for the travel, cut a deal with the Orbison estate to recreate the singer.
He died in 1988 and was best known for hits like "Only the Lonely" and "Oh, Pretty Woman."
Orbison's hologram was paired in 2018 with the London Symphony Orchestra.
Ticket sales were a near sell out in Europe, but in the U.S., "slow" at first, admits Becker.
The shows eventually caught on by the end of the first leg of the tour.
The tour will continue in the fall, again first in Europe, where Orbison will be accompanied by another 1950s rocker, Buddy Holly ("Not Fade Away," "Peggy Sue") who died in a famous 1959 plane crash.
This time the two holograms will be accompanied by a live rock band with backup singers.
Roy Orbison and Buddy Holly on tour (Photo: Screenshot) Tickets range between $50 and $100, says Becker.
That much to see a dead person performing?
"No, to see a fantastic concert experience, celebrating great artists," he insists.
You can see the video lines in a closeup of Roy Orison hologram (Photo: Jefferson Graham) Orbison isn't the only late musician touring as a hologram.
A national tour featuring bandmates of the late Frank Zappa begins April 19th in Port Chester, NY; a hologram of the late opera singer Maria Callas tours via Becker's BASE in the fall.
Putting on these shows isn't as simple as beaming old concert footage on stage.
Becker's team, which also produces concerts in Las Vegas, primarily magic shows, hires actors to learn the mannerisms of the performer, and rehearses them for 3 months, filming them as Hollywood would do for a big-budget action film shot with special effects.
Then BASE applies CGI (computer-generated imagery) film techniques to create an animated Orbison, which is then set to a digitally enhanced audio master recording.
Being able to reopen his legendary songbook and again hear his voice bounce off great concert hall walls is both a transcendent and cathartic experience," says Roy Orbison, Jr.
Despite being gone for many decades, Orbison is still relevant in the digital age, with nearly 2 million fans on Facebook, who can see clips of great performances and information about new music re-releases.
On Twitter, Orbison has a hefty 36,000 followers.
While Vulture called the Orbison show last fall "breathtaking," other critics were not kind.
"Kind of creepy," said the London Telegraph.
"Never once was anyone in the room under the illusion that they were watching anything but an illusion, and before too long the illusion and its limited bag of tricks began to wear out its welcome," said the Toronto Star.
Tickets for the Orbison shows, which kick off in Dublin on October 7th, go on sale in June The second leg of the domestic tour is expected to begin in late 2019.
Taking a look at a hologram of Roy Orbison from behind a video screen (Photo: Jefferson Graham) Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2019/04/19/holograms-roy-orbison-and-buddy-holly-touring-dead-live-again-shows/3473781002/
CLOSE Jefferson Graham talks to consumers and Pinterest co-founder Evan Sharp about what makes the social sharing site resonate for its users.
When it comes to emerging tech companies, investors are clearly rewarding growth and profitability above all else.
Videoconferencing company Zoom and social media site Pinterest both debuted on the public markets Thursday and immediately rallied from their IPO prices.
But Zoom went up significantly more, giving it a valuation of $15.9 billion as of the close of trading, topping Pinterests market capitalization of nearly $13 billion.
Thats a surprising development considering that Zoom is less than half the size of Pinterest, based on the latest full year of sales.
Zoom reported revenue of $330.5 million, while Pinterest generated sales of $755.9 million.
Pinterest generates revenue by selling ads, while Zoom sells its video conferencing software to businesses, including 344 that spend more than $100,000 a year.
Pinterest also has the much better-known brand, with 265 million monthly active users posting and looking at recipes, vacation pictures and photos of shoe collections.
Breaking screens: Samsung has a mess with the nearly $2,000 Galaxy Fold Store closings: Pier 1 Imports could close up to 145 more stores But Zoom is growing faster: Sales increased 118% between the last two fiscal years, while Pinterest grew 60%.
Zoom is also profitable.
It recorded $7.6 million in net income, while Pinterest had a net loss of $63 million.
Zoom is that most unusual beast, which is a profitable IPO coming out of the tech sector, said Roger McNamee, co-founder of investment firm Elevation Partners, Thursday morning on CNBC.
From a stock market point of view, thats the one I find really compelling.
By creating a product thats spread rapidly in the corporate world without having to spend a ton on marketing, and by keeping development costs relatively low with a big development team in China, Zoom has reached profitability much faster than most tech companies.
Zoom also raised money at a much more measured pace than Pinterest and other high-profile tech start-ups such as Uber, Lyft and Slack.
According to Crunchbase, Zoom raised $160 million as a private company while Pinterest raised about $1.5 billion.
Thats allowed founder Eric Yuan to keep ownership of about 20 percent of the company.
By contrast, Pinterest co-founder and CEO Ben Silbermann owns 11 percent of that company, and Evan Sharp, the other co-founder, controls 2.1 percent.
CNBC is a USA TODAY content partner offering financial news and commentary.
Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2019/04/19/zoom-now-valued-16-b-outpaces-pinterest-first-day-trading/3518064002/
None Actors Jason Momoa, left, and Alfre Woodard speak at the Steve Jobs Theater during an event to announce new Apple products on March 25, 2019, in Cupertino, Calif. JEFFERSON GRAHAM, USA TODAY
None Plug your devices into these smart plugs and switches, and control it all using an app or your voice.
Set timers, too.
Belkin/WeMo
None 2017's Galaxy S8 shrunk the borders at the top and bottom of the phone to create Samsung's "infinity display" that allowed the screen to cover most of the front of the phone.
With a 5.8-inch screen on the S8 and a 6.2-inch display on the S8+, the line also marked Samsung's switch to USB-C and added new features such as iris scanning to unlock the phone.
JUNG YEON-JE, AFP/Getty Images
None The LG Watch W7 is a Wear OS smartwatch with a classic watch design.
You can go up to 100 days between charges when the device is in Just Watch Mode.
Use the smartwatch to get proactive help from the Google Assistant and health coaching from Google Fit, an open ecosystem that makes it easy to store, access, and manage fitness data.
Its priced at $449.99 on BestBuy.com Courtesy of Best Buy
None This is the Dalyan River in south-western Turkey, April 28, 2018.
This area is where the Dalyan River and and the mouth of the delta meet at the Agean see and is a national conservation site for three varieties of turtles and over 100 species of birds.
TOLGA BOZOGLU, EPA-EFE
PARIS (Reuters) - French supermarket retailer Casino said it was beefing up its partnership with tech giant Amazon following the success of an earlier deal between its Monoprix supermarket chain and Amazon in Paris.
FILE PHOTO: The logo of Amazon is seen at the company logistics centre in Boves, France, January 19, 2019.
REUTERS/Pascal Rossignol The new, extended partnership entails the installation of so-called Amazon lockers in 1,000 locations across France in nine of the companys main brands, including Monoprix, Monop, Geant, Hyper Casino, Casino Supermarche, Leaderprice, Viva and Spar by the end of the year.
More Casino-branded products will also be available on Amazon.
Amazon and Monoprix will extend their partnership on the Prime Now grocery delivery service outside Paris and onto new cities in the next twelve months.
This announcement represents a new step in strengthening Casinos omnichannel strategy to always be a little more in the heart of consumers lives, said Casinos chief executive Jean-Charles Naouri in a statement.
Casinos Monoprix, seen by analysts as similar to U.S. retailer Whole Foods which Amazon bought last year, started filling orders for subscribers to Amazons Prime loyalty program in parts of Paris last September.
The performance of this partnership has been closely watched since Monoprix was the first French retailer to agree in March 2018 to sell its products via Amazon, causing a stir in the fiercely competitive domestic French market.
The U.S. E-commerce giant, which has run its Amazon Prime express delivery service in Paris since 2016, has made no secret of its desire to launch a grocery delivery service in France as part of its ambitions to expand in food retail.
Casino is also in the process of selling assets to cut its debts and ease concerns over the financial position of both Casino and its parent holding company Rallye.
Earlier this week, Casino said it would sell 12 Casino hypermarkets and 20 supermarkets to Apollo Global Management in a deal worth up to 470 million euros ($529 million).
SEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd is retrieving all Galaxy Fold samples distributed to reviewers to investigate reports of broken screens, a day after it postponed the phones launch, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said on Tuesday.
FILE PHOTO: The Samsung Galaxy Fold phone is shown on a screen at Samsung Electronics Co Ltds Unpacked event in San Francisco, California, U.S., Feb. 20, 2019 REUTERS/Stephen Nellis The retrieval comes as the worlds biggest smartphone maker met with embarrassment ahead of the foldable devices U.S. release on April 26, with a handful of technology journalists reporting breaks, bulges and blinking screens after a days use.
The South Korean tech giant postponed the handsets launch for an unspecified period of time while it investigated the matter.
It said initial findings showed the issues could be associated with impact on exposed areas of the hinges.
A representative declined to comment further on Tuesday.
Samsungs share price was 0.4 percent lower as of 0425 GMT, in a flat Seoul market.
However, parts suppliers fell, with hinge maker KH Vatec Co Ltd shedding 3.1 percent.
A person with direct knowledge of the supply chain said KH Vatec conducted an internal review of hinges used in the Galaxy Fold and found no defects.
The supplier declined to comment.
In March, Samsung released a video showing robots folding Galaxy Fold handsets 200,000 times for its durability test.
Samsungs head of IT and mobile communications, DJ Koh, has repeatedly said foldables are the future of smartphones.
Though the issue does not hurt Samsungs balance sheet, the postponement damages the firms effort to showcase itself as an innovative first mover, not a fast follower, analysts said.
In some cases, reviewers had peeled off a layer of film which they mistook for a disposable screen protector.
Its disastrous that Samsung sent samples to reviewers without clear instructions on how to handle the device, and that the firm needs to fix screen flickering, said analyst Kim Young-woo at SK Securities.
One Samsung employee, speaking on condition of anonymity, said, On the bright side, we have an opportunity to nail down this issue and fix it before selling the phones to a massive audience, so they wont have same complaints.
Samsung emailed pre-order customers upon delaying the launch, online outlets said on Twitter.
Your pre-order guarantees your place in the queue for this innovative technology, Samsung said in the email.
Well update you with more specific shipping information in two weeks.
NAIROBI/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Facebook Incs struggles with hate speech and other types of problematic content are being hampered by the companys inability to keep up with a flood of new languages as mobile phones bring social media to every corner of the globe.
An illustration photo shows the Facebook page displayed on a mobile phone internet browser held in front of a computer screen at a cyber-cafe in downtown Nairobi, Kenya April 18, 2019.
REUTERS/Stringer The company offers its 2.3 billion users features such as menus and prompts in 111 different languages, deemed to be officially supported.
Reuters has found another 31 widely spoken languages on Facebook that do not have official support.
Detailed rules known as community standards, which bar users from posting offensive material including hate speech and celebrations of violence, were translated in only 41 languages out of the 111 supported as of early March, Reuters found.
Facebooks 15,000-strong content moderation workforce speaks about 50 tongues, though the company said it hires professional translators when needed.
Automated tools for identifying hate speech work in about 30.
The language deficit complicates Facebooks battle to rein in harmful content and the damage it can cause, including to the company itself.
Countries including Australia, Singapore and the UK are now threatening harsh new regulations, punishable by steep fines or jail time for executives, if it fails to promptly remove objectionable posts.
The community standards are updated monthly and run to about 9,400 words in English.
Monika Bickert, the Facebook vice president in charge of the standards, has previously told Reuters that they were a heavy lift to translate into all those different languages.
A Facebook spokeswoman said this week the rules are translated case by case depending on whether a language has a critical mass of usage and whether Facebook is a primary information source for speakers.
The spokeswoman said there was no specific number for critical mass.
She said among priorities for translations are Khmer, the official language in Cambodia, and Sinhala, the dominant language in Sri Lanka, where the government blocked Facebook this week to stem rumors about devastating Easter Sunday bombings.
A Reuters report found last year that hate speech on Facebook that helped foster ethnic cleansing in Myanmar went unchecked in part because the company was slow to add moderation tools and staff for the local language.
Facebook says it now offers the rules in Burmese and has more than 100 speakers of the language among its workforce.
The spokeswoman said Facebooks efforts to protect people from harmful content had a level of language investment that surpasses most any technology company.
But human rights officials say Facebook is in jeopardy of a repeat of the Myanmar problems in other strife-torn nations where its language capabilities have not kept up with the impact of social media.
These are supposed to be the rules of the road and both customers and regulators should insist social media platforms make the rules known and effectively police them, said Phil Robertson, deputy director of Human Rights Watchs Asia Division.
Failure to do so opens the door to serious abuses.
ABUSE IN FIJIAN Mohammed Saneem, the supervisor of elections in Fiji, said he felt the impact of the language gap during elections in the South Pacific nation in November last year.
Racist comments proliferated on Facebook in Fijian, which the social network does not support.
Saneem said he dedicated a staffer to emailing posts and translations to a Facebook employee in Singapore to seek removals.
Facebook said it did not request translations, and it gave Reuters a post-election letter from Saneem praising its timely and effective assistance.
Saneem told Reuters that he valued the help but had expected pro-active measures from Facebook.
If they are allowing users to post in their language, there should be guidelines available in the same language, he said.
Similar issues abound in African nations such as Ethiopia, where deadly ethnic clashes among a population of 107 million have been accompanied by ugly Facebook content.
Much of it is in Amharic, a language supported by Facebook.
But Amharic users looking up rules get them in English.
At least 652 million people worldwide speak languages supported by Facebook but where rules are not translated, according to data from language encyclopedia Ethnologue.
Another 230 million or more speak one of the 31 languages that do not have official support.
Facebook uses automated software as a key defense against prohibited content.
Developed using a type of artificial intelligence known as machine learning, these tools identify hate speech in about 30 languages and terrorist propaganda in 19, the company said.
Machine learning requires massive volumes of data to train computers, and a scarcity of text in other languages presents a challenge in rapidly growing the tools, Guy Rosen, the Facebook vice president who oversees automated policy enforcement, has told Reuters.
GROWTH REGIONS Beyond the automation and a few official fact-checkers, Facebook relies on users to report problematic content.
That creates a major issue where community standards are not understood or even known to exist.
Ebele Okobi, Facebooks director of public policy for Africa, told Reuters in March that the continent had the worlds lowest rates of user reporting.
A lot of people dont even know that there are community standards, Okobi said.
Facebook has bought radio advertisements in Nigeria and worked with local organizations to change that, she said.
It also has held talks with African education officials to introduce social media etiquette into the curriculum, she said.
Simultaneously, Facebook is partnering with wireless carriers and other groups to expand internet access in countries including Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo where it has yet to officially support widely-used languages such as Luganda and Kituba.
Asked this week about the expansions without language support, Facebook declined to comment.
The company announced in February it would soon have its first 100 sub-Saharan Africa-based content moderators at an outsourcing facility in Nairobi.
They will join existing teams in reviewing content in Somali, Oromo and other languages.
But the community standards are not translated into Somali or Oromo.
Posts in Somali from last year celebrating the al-Shabaab militant group remained on Facebook for months despite a ban on glorifying organizations or acts that Facebook designates as terrorist.
Disbelievers and apostates, die with your anger, read one post seen by Reuters this month that praised the killing of a Sufi cleric.
After Reuters inquired about the post, Facebook said it took down the authors account because it violated policies.
ABILITY TO DERAIL Posts in Amharic reviewed by Reuters this month attacked the Oromo and Tigray ethnic populations in vicious terms that clearly violated Facebooks ban on discussing ethnic groups using violent or dehumanizing speech, statements of inferiority, or calls for exclusion.
Facebook removed the two posts Reuters inquired about.
The company added that it had erred in allowing one of them, from December 2017, to remain online following an earlier user report.
For officials such as Saneem in Fiji, Facebooks efforts to improve content moderation and language support are painfully slow.
Saneem said he warned Facebook months in advance of the election in the archipelago of 900,000 people.
Most of them use Facebook, with half writing in English and half in Fijian, he estimated.
Social media has the ability to completely derail an election, Saneem said.
Other social media companies face the same problem to varying degrees.
Slideshow (3 Images) Facebook-owned Instagram said its 1,179-word community guidelines are in 30 out of 51 languages offered to users.
WhatsApp, owned by Facebook as well, has terms in nine of 58 supported languages, Reuters found.
Alphabet Incs YouTube presents community guidelines in 40 of 80 available languages, Reuters found.
Twitter Incs rules are in 37 of 47 supported languages, and Snap Incs in 13 out of 21.
A lot of misinformation gets spread around and the problem with the content publishers is the reluctance to deal with it, Saneem said.
They do owe a duty of care.
FILE PHOTO: A Tesla electric car supercharger station is seen in Los Angeles, California, U.S. August 2, 2018.
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson (Reuters) - Increasing demand for electric vehicles in the United States over the next decade will create revenue opportunities for electric utilities that invest in greater grid capacity and offer EV charging and related services, according to a study released on Tuesday.
The study, by the Boston Consulting Group, assumes a significant leap in consumer demand for electric vehicles, which continue to account for only a fraction of U.S. vehicle sales.
BCG estimates that 20 to 30 percent of all U.S. new car sales by 2030 will be electric or hybrid gasoline-electric vehicles.
Last year, plug-in hybrids and pure EVs accounted for just 2 percent of total U.S. car sales, according to the website InsideEVs.com.
BCG predicted that up to 12 percent of all vehicles on U.S. roads will be plug-in hybrid or pure electric by 2030, stretching the capacity of the current grid when charging in certain locations or at certain times of day.
The studys authors suggested that utilities consider expanding their range of services and explore such options as subscription services that impose a flat EV charging fee while providing customers with a free home charger that automatically charges a vehicle overnight and during periods of off-peak demand.
Utilities also were urged to consider offering consulting services, as well as software solutions to both consumer and commercial customers for energy and fleet management.
HONG KONG (Reuters) - Chinas largest live-streaming platform DouYu International Holdings Limited, backed by social media and gaming giant Tencent Holdings Ltd, has filed for a U.S. initial public offering (IPO) of up to $500 million.
DouYu, which primarily focuses on the live-streaming of games, is one of several Chinese start-ups in the growing market for live-streaming in China, along with U.S.-listed rival Huya Inc and Huajiao.
The rapid growth of the live-streaming sector has seen Chinas tech heavyweights - Tencent, Alibaba Group Holding and Baidu Inc - open their wallets to back a slew of firms in the hope it can boost existing services in e-commerce, social networking and gaming.
DouYu has exclusive streaming rights to 29 major tournaments in China, including League of Legends, PlayerUnknowns Battlegrounds, and DOTA2, according to the draft prospectus which was uploaded to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission website overnight on Monday.
DouYu was the largest game-streaming platform by average total monthly active users (MAUs) on both mobile and PC during the fourth quarter of 2018, according to the prospectus.
The company had 159.2 million MAUs in the first quarter of 2019, representing year-on-year growth of 25.7 percent.
It set a placeholder sum of $500 million for the IPO, which is used to calculate registration fees.
The final IPO size could be different, though sources have previously told Reuters DouYu was looking to raise around $500 million.
DouYus IPO could be one of the largest this year by a Chinese company in the United States, together with that of Starbucks challenger Luckin Coffee which also filed overnight.
Chinese companies have raised $271 million through U.S. IPOs so far this year, with the biggest deal being that of Ruhnn Holding Limited which raised $125 million, Refinitiv data showed.
LOSS MAKING China is the worlds largest game streaming market, with approximately 4.9 times the monthly active users of the U.S. market in 2018, the prospectus said.
DouYus active users spent an average of 54 minutes per day on the platform in the fourth quarter of 2018.
DouYu is still loss-making and reported a net loss of $127.4 million in 2018, up from $91.33 million in 2017.
Revenues jumped 94 percent to $531.5 million last year.
The company significantly increased its sales and marketing expenses - which jumped 73 percent in 2018 - as well as its research and development expenses which increased 55 percent.
Most of DouYus revenues come from live-streaming through the sale of virtual gifts, accounting for 86.1 percent of its revenues, with the rest coming from advertisements and some revenue sharing with game developers and publishers, the prospectus showed.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley are the underwriters for DouYus IPO.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Senior executives at T-Mobile US Inc and Sprint Corp made the case to U.S. officials in Washington last week that they should approve a planned tie-up between the two wireless companies, arguing a combined firm would have incentives to aggressively lower prices.
FILE PHOTO: A smartphones with Sprint logo are seen in front of a screen projection of T-mobile logo, in this picture illustration taken April 30, 2018.
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration T-Mobile US Chief Executive John Legere, Sprint executive chairman Marcelo Claure, T-Mobile US chief operating officer Michael Sievert, and other senior executives met with Federal Communications Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel on Thursday, according to a federal filing on Monday.
In a presentation made public on Monday, the firms said they would focus on taking share from Verizon and AT&T through lower prices.
If completed, the $26 billion merger would create a carrier with 127 million customers that would be a formidable competitor to the No.1 and No.2 wireless players, Verizon Communications Inc and AT&T, respectively.
A group of eight Democratic senators and independent Senator Bernie Sanders in February urged the Justice Department and FCC to reject the deal, saying monthly bills for consumers could rise as much as 10 percent.
Consumer advocates warn the deal will reduce the number of national wireless carriers to three from four.
Sources told Reuters last week that the Justice Department had concerns about the merger in its current structure.
A person briefed on the matter confirmed Legere met on Thursday with the head of the Justice Departments antitrust division, Makan Delrahim, as the governments review nears a conclusion.
A decision is likely by early June, people briefed on the matter said.
The Justice Department declined comment.
T-Mobile has said the combined company would be better and faster at building 5G, the next generation of wireless, to compete with AT&T and Verizon.
In its presentation to Rosenworcel, T-Mobile cited Verizons decision to charge $10 extra per month for 5G service.
This wont happen when new T-Mobile introduces 5G, the presentation said.
The agreement to combine the carriers, struck in April 2018, was approved by both companies shareholders in October and has received national security clearance, but still needs approval from the Justice Department and FCC.
A number of state attorneys general are also reviewing the deal.
To win support for the deal, T-Mobile had said it would not increase prices for three years and has pledged to use some spectrum for wireless broadband in rural areas.
The firms say the combined entity would add 11,000 additional employees by 2024 compared to the standalone firms.
FILE PHOTO: Jennifer Newstead, Legal Advisor, U.S. Department of State, attends a hearing for alleged violations of the 1955 Treaty of Amity between Iran and the U.S., at the International Court in The Hague, Netherlands August 27, 2018.
REUTERS/Piroschka van de Wouw (Reuters) - Facebook Inc on Monday named the legal adviser to the U.S. State Department as its general counsel, as the social media giant faces growing regulatory hurdles and privacy concerns.
Jennifer Newstead, who brings government and private sector experience to the role, will succeed Colin Stretch, who decided to quit the company in July 2018, Facebook said in a blog post.
Facebook has come under increasing pressure around the world to stop the spread of misinformation on its platform, while its ad practises have been in the spotlight for two years amid growing discontent over its approach to privacy and user data.
The social media company also named John Pinette as vice president of global communications, succeeding Caryn Marooney, who decided to leave the company in February.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Chief Executive Elon Musk said Tesla Inc robotaxis with no human drivers would be available in some U.S. markets next year, continuing a habit of bold pronouncements that have excited many investors while often missing deadlines.
Probably two years from now well make a car with no steering wheels or pedals, Musk predicted, while acknowledging he is often late to meet aggressive targets.
Central to this promise is a new microchip for self-driving vehicles unveiled by Musk on Monday during a webcast presentation.
Made by Samsung Electronics Co Ltd in Texas, the chip now in all vehicles is hoped to give Tesla an edge over rivals and show its massive investment in autonomous driving - described by Musk as basically our entire expense structure - will pay off.
The webcast presentation came two days before Tesla is expected to announce a quarterly loss on fewer deliveries of its Model 3 sedan, which represents Teslas attempt to become a volume car maker.
After launching the event with detailed technical descriptions of Teslas progress on hardware and software by top executives, Musk began hawking the Model 3 and its potential.
The fundamental message consumers should be taking away today is its financially insane to buy something other than a Tesla.
Its like buying a horse, saying Tesla was the only company to have a full self-driving suite of hardware.
Teslas use of the term full self-driving garners criticism, as it sells such an option today that is not yet Level 4, or fully autonomous by industry standards, in which the car can handle all aspects of driving in most circumstances with no human intervention.
Musk has said that with the hardware complete, improvements in software will allow vehicles to fully drive themselves in future.
The technology faces many regulatory hurdles both in Washington and from local governments.
Global carmakers, large technology companies and startups are developing self-driving - including Alphabet Incs Waymo and Uber Technologies Inc - but experts say it will be years before the systems are ready for prime time.
A year from now well have over a million cars with full self-driving, software, everything, Musk predicted.
FILE PHOTO: A Tesla logo is seen in Los Angeles, California U.S. January 12, 2018.
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson Tesla has been working on a self-driving chip since 2016 and Musk had previously forecast that cars would be fully self-driving by 2018, a target Tesla has missed.
Investors appeared unmoved by the chip announcement but shares rose slightly in after-hour trading following the announcement of the robotaxis.
Wedbush analyst Daniel Ives said Teslas robotaxi ambition was impressive, but added that investors will be concerned by the practicality and financial implications of this endeavor especially with Waymo miles ahead of the autonomous competition.
More pressing for analysts, he said, were concerns about demand for the Model 3 and whether Tesla may seek new financing.
DOOMED RIVALS Musk took a swipe at competitors relying on Lidar, light-based sensors that are a key element in most other self-driving systems.
Lidar is a fools errand.
And anyone relying on Lidar is doomed, said Musk, who has been vocal about the technologys limitations.
Tesla vehicles rely on cameras and radars as their vision system for self-driving.
Competitors will eventually dump Lidar, he said: Its expensive and unnecessary and once you solved vision its worthless.
More than $1 billion in corporate and private investment has been plowed into some 50 Lidar startups over the past three years, including a record $420 million in 2018, according to a Reuters analysis of publicly available investment data in March.
Musk called Teslas new chip the industrys best because it was dedicated for autonomous driving, while others, like Nvidia Corp, developed chips for multiple uses.
FILE PHOTO: Tesla CEO Elon Musk attends the Tesla Shanghai Gigafactory groundbreaking ceremony in Shanghai, China January 7, 2019.
REUTERS/Aly Song Teslas chip was capable of seven times as many frames as Nvidias Xavier system, said Pete Bannon, Teslas head of Autopilot hardware.
Nvidia said the comparison was inaccurate.
U.S. magazine Consumer Reports cautioned against Teslas bold claims about self-driving capabilities that overpromise and underdeliver.
Claims about (Teslas) driving automation systems and safety are not backed up by the data, and it seems todays presentations had more to do with investors than consumers safety, wrote the publication.
FILE PHOTO: Logo of Didi Chuxing is seen at its headquarters building in Beijing, China August 28, 2018.
REUTERS/Jason Lee BOGOTA (Reuters) - Chinese ride-hailing giant Didi Chuxing said on Monday it is beginning to recruit drivers ahead of its launch in Colombias capital Bogota in the coming months.
We have arrived in Colombia with an attractive offer for those who want to register as drivers and we hope to be able to meet the markets expectations, the company said in a statement.
The statement did not specify when Didis services would begin in the Andean country.
Didi is planning to take on U.S. rival Uber Technologies Inc in some of Latin Americas fastest-growing markets and has moved senior executives from China to lead its expansion in such places as Chile and Peru.
The company is Chinas dominant ride-hailing firm and is backed by investors including Japans SoftBank Group Corp.
In 2016, Didi bought Ubers operations in China following a bruising two-year fight for local domination.
The two firms are already battling for market share in Brazil, where Didi bought local start-up 99 in January 2018, and Mexico, where the Chinese firm lured drivers with higher pay and bonuses for signing up other drivers and passengers.
Uber, is popular in Colombia but illegal and the government has said it will suspend for 25 years the licenses of drivers caught working for the platform.
Didi claims to have 31 million drivers across 15 different products - including services for taxis, buses, bicycles and deliveries - and that it completes more than 10 billion rides a year.
(Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd said on Monday it would delay the retail launch of its Galaxy Fold smartphone for an unspecified period of time after reviewers discovered problems with the display, a hit to the reputation of the worlds largest handset maker.
Last week, reviewers started posting problems with the device on Twitter, but as of Friday the company did not know the root cause of the screen defects, according to Patrick Moorhead, founder of Moor Insights & Strategy, who said he was in direct contact with the company.
About 50 units of the $1,980 foldable device had been sent for review to journalists, analysts and bloggers in the United States ahead of a planned April 26 launch, Moorhead said.
It was not immediately clear how many of the devices were defective.
Four units sent to journalists and a YouTube personality contained problems, according to their posts on Twitter.
Samsung declined comment beyond a prepared statement.
To fully evaluate this feedback and run further internal tests, we have decided to delay the release of the Galaxy Fold.
We plan to announce the release date in the coming weeks, a Samsung spokesperson said on Monday.
Samsung also postponed media events for the device planned for this week in Hong Kong and Shanghai.
While Samsung has not said how long the delay could be or whether production of the unit has halted completely, some analysts said the delay was minor compared to the massive recall and production halt that the company endured with its Galaxy Note 7 in 2016.
Its certainly an embarrassment to Samsungs reputation but this wont have much financial impact on them since they created a whole new category of foldables with this product.
There is no market share to lose, said Moorhead, who added that his test version of the phone was working without any issues.
Instead of plaudits ahead of the phones planned launch, the South Korean conglomerate has been blighted by a handful of technology journalists reporting breaks, bulges and blinking screens.
Samsung said initial findings showed that the issues could be associated with impact on exposed areas of the hinges.
It also said there were instances where substances found inside the device affected the display performance.
Wayne Lam, an analyst with IHS Markit, predicted the issue would likely be resolved within a month.
We all know that Samsung has a technology that works.
Its likely that this glitch is a problem with mass production and the failure is just in the single digit percentage, he said.
FILE PHOTO: The Samsung Galaxy Fold phone is shown on a screen at Samsung Electronics Co Ltds Unpacked event in San Francisco, California, U.S., Feb. 20, 2019.
REUTERS/Stephen Nellis/File Photo Samsung has hailed the folding design as the future in a field that has seen few surprises since Apple Incs iPhone in 2007.
Chinese rival Huawei Technologies Co Ltd has also announced a folding handset, the Mate X. Samsung was initially planning to begin South Korean and European sales of the unit in May and Chinese sales from an undisclosed date.
AT&T, one of Samsungs U.S. launch partners for the Galaxy Fold, said the carrier was working to communicate with customers who pre-ordered the device as soon as possible.
AT&T did not disclose the number of pre-orders.
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Video of a parked Tesla Inc Model S exploding and a Wall Street downgrade of the electric carmakers stock pushed shares down 4 percent on Monday, as it prepared to issue results for a troubled first quarter.
FILE PHOTO: A Tesla logo is seen on a wheel rim during the media day for the Shanghai auto show in Shanghai, China April 16, 2019.
REUTERS/Aly Song/File Photo Brokerage Evercore cut its recommendation on shares of the Silicon Valley company to sell, becoming the twelfth brokerage to ask investors to abandon billionaire Elon Musks venture and raising bearish sentiment to its highest ever.
Musk and Tesla have faced a range of challenges over the past year as one of the leaders in electric vehicle technology sought to ramp up production, deliveries and sales of the Model 3 sedan seen as crucial to its long-term profitability.
The company, which is struggling with deliveries of its higher-priced Model S and X luxury cars, said it has sent a team to investigate the video on Chinese social media apparently showing the latest in a string of fires involving its cars.
The video, time stamped Sunday evening and widely shared on Chinas Twitter-like Weibo, shows the parked vehicle emitting smoke and bursting into flames seconds later.
A video purportedly of the aftermath showed a line of three cars completely destroyed.
Reuters was not immediately able to verify the origins of the video, which Weibo users said was taken in Shanghai.
The cause of the explosion could not be immediately ascertained from the videos.
We immediately sent a team onsite and were supporting local authorities to establish the facts.
From what we know now, no one was harmed, Tesla said in a statement.
It declined to comment further when contacted by Reuters.
There have been at least 14 instances of Tesla cars catching fire since 2013, with the majority occurring after a crash.
The car fire is just another data point of continued difficulties, Roth Capital analyst Craig Irwin wrote in an email.
Not a lot of good news for Tesla these days.
Tesla will report its first-quarter results on Wednesday and had flagged in February that it expects to post a loss as it launched a cheaper $35,000 Model 3 sedan.
We remain encouraged by Teslas vision and future growth prospects, but there is increased uncertainty around near-term demand versus previous bullish forecasts and growth cannot stall for a growth company, Evercore analysts wrote in their note downgrading the shares.
The change meant 38.7 percent of analysts now have a sell rating on Tesla, topping the previous record of 36.8 percent in November, 2016.
REPUTATION IN CHINA The latest fire incident comes as Tesla tries to push sales in China, where its prices were impacted by tit-for-tat tariffs imposed during Sino-U.S. trade tensions last year.
The automaker currently imports all the cars it sells in China, but is building a factory in Shanghai that will initially make its Model 3 and help reduce the hit of a trade war.
In March, Tesla was also on the receiving end of a labeling mix-up at Shanghai customs that led to a temporary suspension of clearance for a batch of Model 3 cars.
Analysts said the latest fire incident would likely increase attention on the safety of EVs, but was unlikely to have a significant impact on Teslas sales or reputation in China while the cause was being investigated.
Tesla had fire incidents before, but they didnt have a big impact on its reputation in China, said analyst Alan Kang at LMC Automotive.
Since its consumer base is not particularly conservative, and China is pushing the electric vehicle market, if this incident is just accidental, it will not have a big impact on Tesla, he said.
Tesla self-ignites was one of the most popular hashtags on Weibo on Monday, racking up over 20 million clicks.
Some users urged the automaker to quickly find the cause, whereas others speculated over the impact to the value of Tesla cars currently on the road.
Still more found humor in the situation.
One lesson I learned from the Shanghai self-exploding Tesla: Dont park your car next to a Tesla, said one commentator.
The company is expected to host an Autonomy Day later at its headquarters in Palo Alto, focusing on its autonomous driving system.
In a separate, unrelated incident, Teslas rival in China, Nio, said in a social media post that an ES8 electric sport utility vehicle caught fire on Monday in a Nio service center in the central city of Xian while under repair.
Nio has launched an investigation to determine the cause of the fire, Nio said, adding no one was harmed due to the incident.
SEOUL (Reuters) - Smartphone maker Samsung Electronics Co Ltd has postponed media events for its Galaxy Fold planned for this week in Hong Kong and Shanghai, a company official said, days after reviewers of the foldable handset reported defective samples.
The official did not elaborate on reasons or rescheduling.
Instead of plaudits ahead of the phones launch on April 26 in the United States, the South Korean conglomerate has been blighted by technology journalists reporting breaks, bulges and blinking screens after using their samples for as little as a day.
Samsung said it received a few reports of damage to the displays of samples of the $1,980 handset, raising the specter of the combustible Galaxy Note 7 three years ago which the firm ultimately pulled from shelves at massive cost.
The reviewers reports of broken screens went viral online and prompted the creation of hashtag #foldgate on Twitter.
Samsung has hailed the folding design as the future in a field that has seen few surprises since Apple Incs iPhone in 2007.
Chinese rival Huawei Technologies Co Ltd has also announced a folding handset, the Mate X.
The Samsung official on Monday said the firm was thoroughly investigating the damage reports as previously announced, and declined to comment on whether there would be any change to the U.S. release date.
The firm plans to begin South Korean and European sales in May, and Chinese sales from an undisclosed date.
(This story officially corrects the seventh paragraph after Samsung official clarifies no change to firms ongoing investigation, not U.S. release date)
FILE PHOTO: Small toy figures are seen in front of a displayed Huawei and 5G network logo in this illustration picture, March 30, 2019.
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinas Huawei Technologies launched on Monday what it said was the worlds first 5G communications hardware for the automotive industry, in a sign of its growing ambitions to become a key supplier to the sector for self-driving technology.
Huawei said in a statement that the so-called MH5000 module is based on the Balong 5000 5G chip which it launched in January.
Based on this chip, Huawei has developed the worlds first 5G car module with high speed and high quality, it said.
It launched the module at the Shanghai Autoshow, which began last week and runs until Thursday.
As an important communication product for future intelligent car transportation, this 5G car module will promote the automotive industry to move towards the 5G era, Huawei said.
It said the module will aid its plans to start commercializing 5G network technology for the automotive sector in the second half of this year.
Huawei has in recent years been testing technology for intelligent connected cars in Chinese cities such as Shanghai, Shenzhen and Wuxi and has signed cooperation deals with a swathe of car makers including FAW, Dongfeng and Changan.
The company, which is also the worlds biggest telecoms equipment maker, is striving to lead the global race for next-generation 5G networks but has come under increasing scrutiny from Washington which alleges that its equipment could be used for espionage.
Huawei has repeatedly denied the allegations.
The logo of Toyota is seen on a car during the Prague Autoshow in Prague, Czech Republic, April 13, 2019.
REUTERS/David W Cerny BEIJING (Reuters) - Japans Toyota Motor Corp said on Sunday it was setting up a research institute in Beijing in partnership with Tsinghua University to study car technology using hydrogen power and other green technologies that could ease environmental problems in China.
The initiative, outlined by Toyotas President and Chief Executive Akio Toyoda in a speech at Tsinghua University, is part of the Japanese carmakers efforts to share more technology with China as it seeks to expand its business in the country by beefing up manufacturing capacity and distribution channels, a source close to Toyota said.
The Tsinghua-Toyota Joint Research Institute will conduct research into cars and new technology to solve environmental problems in China, including reducing traffic accidents, Toyota said in a statement.
The institute will cooperate in research not only related to cars for Chinese consumers, but also in research related to active utilization of hydrogen energy that can help solve Chinas energy problems, the company said.
The move dovetails with Toyotas announcement this month that it would offer carmakers and suppliers around the world free access to nearly 24,000 patents for electric vehicle technologies.
Executive Vice President Shigeki Terashi told Reuters earlier this month that the automaker intended to become a tier 2 supplier of hybrid systems and that it had already received enquiries from more than 50 companies.
Later on Monday, Toyota said that it had started to supply fuel cell vehicle parts to Chinese commercial vehicle maker Foton and SinoHytec, without giving financial details of the deal.
The company said in a statement that it hopes to cooperate with more companies in China to promote fuel cell vehicle penetration in China.
HONG KONG (Reuters) - Huawei Technologies said on Monday its first-quarter revenue jumped 39 percent to 179.7 billion yuan ($26.81 billion), in the Chinese technology firms first-ever quarterly results.
FILE PHOTO: A man walks past a sign board of Huawei at CES (Consumer Electronics Show) Asia 2018 in Shanghai, China June 14, 2018.
REUTERS/Aly Song The Shenzhen-based firm, the worlds biggest telecoms equipment maker, also said its net profit margin was around 8 percent for the quarter, which it added was slightly higher than the same period last year.
Huawei did not disclose its actual net profit.
The limited results announcement comes at a time when Washington has intensified a campaign against unlisted Huawei, alleging its equipment could be used for espionage and urging U.S. allies to ban it from building next-generation 5G mobile networks.
Huawei has repeatedly denied the allegations and launched an unprecedented media blitz by opening up its campus to journalists and making its typically low-key founder, Ren Zhengfei, available for media interviews.
The Chinese firm, which is also the worlds No.
3 smartphone maker, said last week the number of contracts it has won to provide 5G telecoms gear increased further despite the U.S. campaign.
By the end of March, Huawei said it had signed 40 commercial 5G contracts with carriers, shipped more than 70,000 5G base stations to markets around the world and expects to have shipped 100,000 by May.
Huaweis network business saw its first drop in revenue in two years in 2018.
But Ren Zhengfei said in an interview with CNBC earlier this month that network equipment sales rose 15 percent while sales of the consumer business increased by more than 70 percent in the first quarter.
These figures show that we are still growing, not declining, Ren said.
Guo Ping, rotating chairman of the company, has said he expects all three business groups - consumer, carrier and enterprise - to post double-digit growth this year.
Huawei also said on Monday it had shipped 59 million smartphones in the first quarter.
It did not disclose year-ago comparable figures, but according to market research firm Strategy Analytics, Huawei shipped 39.3 million smartphones in the first quarter of 2018.
(Reuters) - Elon Musks SpaceX suffered an anomaly in one of its Crew Dragon capsules while conducting engine tests at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida on Saturday, the company said.
FILE PHOTO - A SpaceX Falcon 9 carrying the Crew Dragon spacecraft sits on launch pad 39A prior to the uncrewed test flight to the International Space Station from the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida, U.S., March 1, 2019.
REUTERS/Mike Blake The initial tests completed successfully but the final test resulted in an anomaly on the test stand, the company said in a statement.
The issue was earlier reported by Florida Today, which said orange smoke was seen rising above SpaceXs facilities, and that the anomaly was contained with no injuries.
SpaceX said its teams are investigating and are working closely with U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) partners.
"NASA has been notified about the results of the SpaceX Static Fire Test and the anomaly that occurred during the final test," its administrator Jim Bridenstine said in a tweet here This is why we test.
We will learn, make the necessary adjustments and safely move forward with our Commercial Crew Program, he added.
NASA has awarded SpaceX and Boeing Co a total of $6.8 billion to build competing rocket and capsule systems to launch astronauts into orbit from American soil.
In March, the privately owned SpaceX successfully completed its mission of sending an unmanned capsule to the International Space Station and returned safely to Earth, a mission seen as crucial to NASAs plans to resume human space flight from U.S. soil.
SpaceXs first crewed test flight is slated to launch in July with U.S. astronauts Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken.
People play online games at an internet cafe in Fuyang, Anhui province, China August 20, 2018.
Picture taken August 20, 2018.
REUTERS/Stringer SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Chinas press and publication regulator has issued new rules on applications for publishing online games in China, signaling a possible acceleration in the handing out of formal approvals.
China stopped granting licenses to monetize online games in March 2018, hurting the industry and developers such as Tencent Holdings Ltd and NetEase Inc.
It started up approvals again in December, only to ask local governments to pause on submitting applications in February.
The State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television released the new rules late on Friday.
Under the guidelines, games will undergo content vetting and the number of games allowed on to the market will be controlled.
Gaming market research and consulting firm Niko Partners said the administration had explained the new rules to industry insiders earlier in the month, saying it was grinding through a backlog of applications submitted last year.
Chinese gaming publishers were being encouraged to develop titles with Chinas core social values in mind, including games that promote traditional culture, Niko said.
Niko said the administration would take new submissions from Monday, April 22, under the new application process.
With a new more transparent approval process set to go live soon, we have a positive outlook for Chinas digital games market in 2019, it said.
(The story refiles to fix name of consultancy to Niko Partners in paragraph 5.)
(Reuters) - U.S. intelligence has accused Huawei Technologies of being funded by Chinese state security, The Times said on Saturday, adding to the list of allegations faced by the Chinese technology company in the West.
A Huawei logo is pictured during the media day for the Shanghai auto show in Shanghai, China April 16, 2019.
REUTERS/Aly Song The CIA accused Huawei of receiving funding from Chinas National Security Commission, the Peoples Liberation Army and a third branch of the Chinese state intelligence network, the British newspaper reported, citing a source.
Earlier this year, U.S. intelligence shared its claims with other members of the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing group, which includes Britain, Australia, Canada and New Zealand, according to the report bit.ly/2KT7ztd.
Huawei dismissed the allegations in a statement cited by the newspaper.
Huawei does not comment on unsubstantiated allegations backed up by zero evidence from anonymous sources, a Huawei representative told The Times.
The company, the CIA and Chinas Foreign Ministry did not respond immediately to requests for comment.
The accusation comes at a time of trade tensions between Washington and Beijing and amid concerns in the United States that Huaweis equipment could be used for espionage.
The company has said the concerns are unfounded.
Authorities in the United States are probing Huawei for alleged sanctions violations.
Meng Wanzhou, Huaweis chief financial officer and daughter of its founder, Ren Zhengfei, was arrested in Canada in December at the request of the United States on charges of bank and wire fraud in violation of U.S. sanctions against Iran.
She denies wrongdoing and her father has previously said the arrest was politically motivated.
Amid such charges, top educational institutions in the West have recently severed ties with Huawei to avoid losing federal funding.
Another Chinese technology company, ZTE Corp 0763.HK, 000063.SZ, has also been at the center of similar controversies in the United States.
U.S. sanctions forced ZTE to stop most business between April and July last year after Commerce Department officials said it broke a pact and was caught illegally shipping U.S.-origin goods to Iran and North Korea.
The sanctions were lifted after ZTE paid $1.4 billion in penalties.
Reuters reported earlier this week that the United States will push its allies at a meeting in Prague next month to adopt shared security and policy measures that will make it more difficult for Huawei to dominate 5G telecommunications networks.
(This version of the story clarifies in sixth paragraph that Chinas Foreign Ministry did not respond to request for comment)
(Reuters) - A British cyber security researcher hailed as a hero for neutralizing the global WannaCry ransomware attack in 2017 has pleaded guilty to U.S. charges of writing malware.
Marcus Hutchins, who was charged on 10 counts in the United States, pleaded guilty to two of them, with the U.S. government agreeing to move toward dismissing the remaining counts at the time of the sentencing, according to a filing bit.ly/2Vh9onq at the U.S. District Court in the eastern district Wisconsin.
"I've pleaded guilty to two charges related to writing malware in the years prior to my career in security", Hutchins, also known online as MalwareTech, said in a statement bit.ly/2VbLg5Q.
He did not give details.
Hutchins had risen to overnight fame within the hacker community in May 2017 when he helped defang the global WannaCry ransomware attack, which infected hundreds of thousands of computers and caused disruptions at factories, hospitals, shops and schools in more than 150 countries.
He was arrested later that year in Las Vegas on unrelated charges that he had built and sold malicious code used to steal banking credentials.
U.S. prosecutors had claimed that he and a co-defendant advertised, distributed and profited from malware code known as Kronos between July 2014 and 2015.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - After Western sanctions gutted Russias financial system five years ago, a new bank card began appearing in the wallets of many Russians.
CEO of Russian National Payment Card System (NSPK) Vladimir Komlev attends an interview with Reuters in NSPK office in Moscow, Russia March 21, 2019.
REUTERS/Maxim Shemetov Now the country is hoping to introduce its cards, known as Mir cards, to foreign markets where Russian nationals live and travel, Vladimir Komlev, the head of Russias National Card Payment System (NSPK), told Reuters in an interview.
In the next three years we want Mir cards to be operational in countries where Russians are used to traveling, Komlev said.
Its the hardest task in terms of returns on investment.
Russia created its own card payment system in 2014 because it feared U.S. and European sanctions against some Russian banks and businesspeople over the annexation of Crimea could block transactions made with U.S.-based Mastercard and Visa.
NSPK said Turkeys Isbank had started accepting Mir cards as of Thursday.
Russians made 5.7 million trips to Turkey last year, according to state statistics agency Rosstat.
Komlev projected Mir cards would be operational at some banks in 12 foreign countries by the end of the year.
He would not, however, disclose which countries those might be.
NSPK is not subject to Western sanctions, but some foreign companies are wary of doing business with Russian firms in case further restrictions are put in place.
EXPANDING AT HOME More than 56 million Mir cards have been issued and they currently make up more than 20 percent of Russias bank card market, Komlev said.
Mir means World or Peace in Russian.
NSPK, which was created by the central bank, has received a boost from legislation obliging civil servants to receive their salaries on Mir cards.
It aims for Mir cards share of the market to reach 30 percent over the next couple of years.
Starting next year, pension payments, as well as child and unemployment benefits, will only be paid on the cards.
These measures have made Mir a rival to Mastercard and Visa in Russia.
But its shortcomings - its incompatibility with many international shopping platforms and its limited use outside Russia - have prompted Russian officials to call for more support to help it to take on U.S. competitors.
At this time, its difficult for Mir to compete with Visa and Mastercard, Valentina Matviyenko, the speaker of the upper house of the Russian parliament, said this month.
We need to develop its functionality, its social orientation.
Mastercard, which operates a co-branded card with Mir, said it supported the development of the payment industry and fair competition.
Visa did not reply to a request for comment.
Slideshow (3 Images) Mir has develop its own Mir Pay smartphone application and is available on Samsung Pay.
Komlev said NSPK had not reached an agreement with Apple to make Mir cards available on its mobile payment platform.
Komlev said another of NSPKs priorities was to get major international online booking services for airline tickets and accommodation to accept Mir cards.
Business and geopolitics have mixed here, so its not as easy to implement as we would like, he said.
(CNN) Just because it's on the internet doesn't make it true .
It seems so simple, but if everyone knew that, Facebook and Google wouldn't have to pull bogus news sites from their advertising algorithms and people wouldn't breathlessly share stories that claim Donald Trump is a secret lizard person or Hillary Clinton is an android in a pantsuit.
It doesn't have to be this way.
Fake news is actually really easy to spot -- if you know how.
Consider this your New Media Literacy Guide.
NOTE: As we put this together, we sought the input of two communications experts: Dr. Melissa Zimdars , an associate professor at Merrimack College in Massachusetts whose dynamic list of unreliable news sites has gone viral, and Alexios Mantzarlis , the head of theat the Poynter Institute.
This one is tough, because satire doesn't pretend to be real and serves a purpose as commentary or entertainment.
But if people are not familiar with a satire site, they can share the news as if it is legitimate.
The shocking or teasing headlines of these stories trick you into clicking for more information -- which may or may not live up to what was promised.
A type of misleading news, this may be an interpretation of a real news event where the facts are manipulated to fit an agenda.
These are the hardest to debunk, because they often contain a kernel of truth: A fact, event or quote that has been taken out of context.
Look for sensational headlines that aren't supported by the information in the article.
These are the easiest to debunk and often come from known sham sites that are designed to look like real news outlets.
They may include misleading photographs and headlines that, at first read, sound like they could be real.
First, know the different types of misleading and false news "People think this [thinking] applies only for older people," she told CNN.
"I think even early education should be teaching about communication, media and the internet.
Growing up with the internet doesn't necessarily mean you're internet savvy."
Melissa Zimdars points out that even those who spend a lot of time online aren't immune to fake content.
"If we were a little slower to share and re-tweet content purely based on the headline, we'd go a good way towards combating flasehoods," he told CNN.
Alexios Mantzarlis trains fact-checkers for a living.
He says it's important to have a "healthy amount of skepticism" and to think, really think, before sharing a piece of news.
For starters, here are 10 questions you should ask if something looks fake: 1.
Does the story come from a strange URL?
Zimdars says sites with strange suffixes like ".co" or ".su," or that are hosted by third party platforms like WordPress should raise a red flag.
Some fake sites, like National Report, have legitimate-sounding, if not overly general names that can easily trick people on social sites.
For instance, several fake reports from abcnews.com.co have gone viral before being debunked, including a June article that claimed President Obama signed an order banning assault weapon sales.
2.
Does the headline match the information in the article?
Mantzarlis says one of the biggest reasons bogus news spreads on Facebook is because people get sucked in by a headline and don't bother to click through.
Just this week, several dubious organizations circulated a story about Pepsi CEO Indra Nooyi.
"Pepsi STOCK Plummets After CEO Tells Trump Supporters to 'Take Their Business Elsewhere'," trumpeted one such headline.
However, the articles themselves didn't contain that quote nor evidence that Pepsi's stock saw a significant drop (it didn't).
Nooyi did make recorded comments about Trump's election, but was never quoted telling his supporters to "take their business elsewhere."
3.
Is it a recent story, or an old one that has been re-purposed?
Sometimes legitimate news stories can be twisted and resurrected years after the fact to create a false conflation of events.
Mantzarlis recalls an erroneous story that actually cited a legitimate piece of news from CNNMoney.
A blog called Viral Liberty recently reported that Ford had moved production of some of their trucks from Mexico to Ohio because of Donald Trump's election win.
The story quickly caught fire online -- after all, it seemed like a great win for the domestic auto industry.
It turns out, Ford did move some manufacturing from Mexico to Ohio -- in 2015 .
It had nothing to do with the election results at all.
4.
Are the supporting videos or photos verifiable?
Photos and videos can also be taken out of context to support a false claim.
In April, the liberal site Occupy Democrats posted a video that purportedly showed a young woman getting removed from a bathroom by police for not looking feminine enough.
This was during the height of the HB2 "bathroom bill" controversy, and the article clearly linked the two.
"IT BEGINS," read the headline.
However, there was no date on the video or evidence that it was shot in North Carolina, where the "bathroom bill" was to be passed.
In fact, according to Snopes , the same video was published to a Facebook page in 2015, meaning it predated the HB2 controversy.
5.
Does the article cite primary sources?
It's not just political news that can be bogus.
Now8News is one of the most infamous fake-but-looks-real site, specializing in the kind of weird news stories that often go viral.
One such article claims Coca-Cola recalled Dasani water bottles after a "clear parasite" was found in the water.
There was even an accompanying gross-out picture that allegedly showed the parasite, though some basic Googling reveals it is most likely a photo of a young eel Regardless, the article had no statement or claim from any company.
Clearly this would be a big story.
Dasani or any number of consumer advocacy groups would publish statements or news releases about it, right?
There are none to be found -- because the story is 100% fake.
6.
Does the story feature quotes, and are they traceable?
A favorite meme of Liberal Facebook groups features a fake quote from Donald Trump that is allegedly from a People Magazine interview in 1998: "If I were to run, I'd run as a Republican.
They're the dumbest group of voters in the country.
They believe anything on Fox News.
I could lie and they'd still eat it up.
I bet my numbers would be terrific."
quote is nowhere to be found in them.
This one is easily debunked if you take even a moment to think about it : People.com has extensive archives, and thisin them.
7.
Is it the only outlet reporting the story?
During this election season, Pope Francis was roped into three super viral, and completely false, stories.
According to various (fake) websites, the Pope endorsed three US Presidential candidates: First, Bernie Sanders, as "reported" by National Report and USAToday.com.co.
Then, Donald Trump, as "reported" by fake news site WTOE 5 News.
Finally, another fake news site KYPO6.com reported he had endorsed Hillary Clinton!
In all of these instances, subsequent reports all circled back to the fake ones.
It's always good to trace a story back to the original source, and if you find yourself in a loop -- or if they all lead back to the same dubious site -- you have reason to doubt.
8.
Is your own bias getting in the way?
Both Zimdars and Mantzarlis say confirmation bias is a big reason fake news speads like it does.
Some of that is built into Facebook's algorithm -- the more you like or interact with a certain interest, the more Facebook will show you related to that interest.
Similarly, if you hate Donald Trump, you are more likely to think negative stories about Donald Trump are true, even if there is no evidence.
"We seek out information that already fits with our established beliefs," says Zimdars.
"If we come into contact with information we don't agree with, it still may reaffirm us because we will attempt to find faults."
So if you find an outrageous article that feels "too good to be true," use caution: It just might be.
9.
Has it been debunked by a reputable fact-checking organization?
you're getting the real deal.
View the whole list here.
Did you know there is actually an International Fact-Checking Network (which Mantzarlis leads)?
And that it has a code of principles?
The code includes the ideals of nonpartisanship and transparency, among others.
Sites like FactCheck.org, Snopes and Politifact abide by this code, so if you see a debunking there, you know 10.
Is the host on a list of unreliable news websites?
things can get tricky.
There's obviously a big difference between "misleading" news, which is usually based in fact, and "fake" news, which is just fiction disguised as fact.
This is where.
There's obviously a big difference between "misleading" news, which is usually based in fact, and "fake" news, which is just fiction disguised as fact.
Zimdars' now-famous list covers both kinds, as well as satire and sites that capitalize on clickbait-type headlines.
Snopes also maintains a list While Zimdars is glad her list has gotten so much attention, she also cautions that completely writng off some of the sites as "fake" is not accurate.
"I want to make sure this list doesn't do a great disservice to the ultimate goal," she says.
"It's interesting that some of the headlines [about my list] are just as hyperbolic as the ones I am analyzing."
Georgia McCafferty , CNN Written by The winners of this year's "Oscars of watchmaking" have been chosen, with a wide range of time pieces recognized for their engineering perfection and eye-catching design.
An industry jury chose the world's best watches in fifteen different categories including sports, jewellery and travel time watch, with the awards presented by the Grand Prix d'Horlogerie de Genve (GPHG) in Geneva earlier this month.
The grand prize for the world's best watch, the Aiguille d'Or Grand Prix, was awarded to the Chronomtre Ferdinand Berthoud FB 1 from Ferdinand Berthoud.
This limited-edition white gold and titanium time piece, which retails for more than $200,000, has a leather strap and is powered by a hand-wound movement comprised of more than 1,120 components.
The Public Prize, chosen by votes submitted internationally online and at select international watch exhibitions, was awarded to the 33 bis Quai des Bergues by Czapek Genve.
The winning watches were shown in Seoul, Rome and Geneva before they arrived in Dubai on November 15 for their final hurrah at Dubai Watch Week Watches from Audemars Piguet, Montblanc, MB&F, Piaget, TAG Heuer and Tudor brands, along with Chanel, Eberhard & Co, Faberg and Grnefeld, were also honored by this year's 27-person international jury.
Check out the gallery above to see the full list of this years winners.
Story highlights Driverless electric racer completes successful track test in Marrakech, Morocco Planned Roborace series will see autonomous cars compete at Formula E ePrix weekends (CNN) It is a car kitted out with technology its developers boldly predict will transform our cities and change the way we live.
The autonomous "DevBot #1" took a giant leap forward in Morocco recently, making its debut on a street track at the Formula E Marrakech ePrix The battery-powered prototype is being tested for Roborace -- a proposed race series where driverless cars will compete on temporary city circuits.
"It's the first time we've run the Devbot in driverless mode on a Formula E track in the middle of a city street," Roborace's Justin Cooke told CNN.
"It's so exciting for the team who put hours and hours of work in.
These guys were up to 1-2 a.m. in the morning developing a technology that no one else in the world is able to do at this speed and in these complicated environments."
Read More
Tampa, Florida (CNN) When it comes to piloting a plane, I have zero experience.
In fact, I've never even considered attempting it.
Nevertheless, as we swoop over Florida's Tampa Bay on a gorgeous November morning, I enthusiastically take over the controls of the ICON A5, a two-seater amphibious plane that looks like a sports car, maneuvers like a jet ski and is so intuitive, the company says that even a novice can learn to fly it in less than 30 hours.
At 23 feet long and weighing in a 1,510 pounds, it's known as a sea light-sport aircraft.
Designed to help you focus on the freedom of flying without worrying if the plane will react unpredictably, there's nothing else quite like it on the market.
Now that I'm in control, my whole body tenses for a good five minutes.
Am I really ready to pilot this shiny new machine all by myself?
I'm not entirely sure.
However, I take comfort in the fact that the A5 was built specifically for people like me, and it was designed to drive like a car.
Plus, the fact that Icon's CEO and founder, Kirk Hawkins, is next to me in the cockpit doesn't hurt either.
He can take over the controls at any time.
So far, so good.
We glide smoothly through the air at about 1,000 feet, and I'm comfortable enough to take in the sights.
Lovely Fort De Soto Park doesn't disappoint.
l e v a r t Squiggles of dreamy white dunes are surrounded by water that looks like it should be in the Caribbean.
The Sunshine Skyway Bridge, with its series of long-spanning cables, is equally impressive.
The adrenaline is still racing.
And as most surreal experiences go, it just keeps getting better.
For starters, there's another ICON A5 to my left, which is thrilling in itself.
We are flying in formation, and my job is to mimic its movements.
You'd think this would be intimidating, but it's not.
It's just plain fun.
That's music to Hawkins' ears.
He's the brains behind this newfangled plane, an idea 10 years in the making.
As a former Air Force F-16 pilot and a Stanford Business School grad, he has focused most of his adult life on making sport flying available to the masses.
"The idea for us was to create an airplane where the average human being can go out and experience the world without having the burden of becoming a professional pilot," he says.
So it makes sense that the dashboard looks like what you see in your car.
There are only a few gauges that I don't recognize.
"It's the Apple approach to things," he says.
"You humanize it, and make it intuitive and easy and cool."
He's so confident people will want to fly (and buy) his planes that he just opened a flight-training facility at Peter O. Knight Airport.
Located on Davis Island, five minutes from downtown Tampa, it's a place where both beauty and sailboats abound.
The company's other training center is in Vacaville, California, where ICON is headquartered.
Wide eyes and open windows By 9 a.m., it's time for a brief water-landing pitstop.
Hawkins takes over the controls.
I've been too busy learning to fly in formation (not something non-pilots get to try very often) and interviewing Hawkins to even think about learning to do a water landing myself.
It's something Hawkins tells me most people can master in about 30 minutes.
A few negative-Gs and 360-degree turns later and it becomes a fun roller-coaster ride in the sky.
Plus, it's an open-air flight, so I occasionally flop my arms out.
Just because I can.
At a few hundred feet above the water, it's easy to spot a boater waving at us, a flock of pelicans and even stingrays.
"We're gonna pull over here and stop and get out for a second," he says.
Surely he's kidding, right?
But after landing the plane on the water, he takes off his seatbelt, and I realize he's not.
Seconds later, he pops the roof and we climb onto the wings, which could easily double as diving boards.
Suddenly, this feels less like a plane outing and more like I'm on a boat sunbathing.
Everything is drenched in a mesmerizing golden hue.
I can imagine picnicking on the beach nearby.
Or taking the plane somewhere for a remote weekend camping trip.
Because the plane has a range of about 430 miles on a full tank, it's made for short getaways.
"This entire thing is about inspiring people," he explains.
"Once you learn to fly, you will never be the same.
You will look at the sky different, you will look at the planet different."
Designed to make flying simple "The primary motor skills for operating a plane are pretty easy," Hawkins tells me.
"We have people landing by themselves with an instructor on their very first day, within 30 minutes."
That said, they've painstakingly taken the time to design it for safety.
The goal of the spin-resistant airframe feature is that if the pilot makes mistakes, the airplane doesn't lose control.
As a backup, there's a complete airplane parachute.
"The spin resistance feature is a big deal as it's the first airplane that the FAA has deemed spin-resistant," says Chris Dupin, a flight instructor and US Air Force officer.
"A significant number of general aviation fatalities are from loss of control accidents that involve an unrecovered spin on the base to final turn."
Plus, there's the angle of attack indicator, something you don't typically see in a light aircraft.
It shows you where the wing is happy (in the green) or where it could stall (in the red).
The pilot's job is to keep the wing within the green or yellow section of the gauge.
This is part of what makes water takeoffs and landings so easy to learn.
Becoming a barnstormer "Kirk Hawkins has an extremely creative and innovative idea for pilot training that is more intuitive; teaching the feel of flight first and the principals and structure later, not unlike how people learn to drive," says Christine Negroni, veteran aviation journalist and author of "The Crash Detectives."
"The world is facing a pilot shortage, so the idea of teaching differently, so that different learning styles can be accommodated could very well expand the pool of pilot candidates."
On that note, about 40% of the folks who've put down deposits for the ICON A5 are not pilots, which means this plane is drawing aviation newbies.
After an hour and a half of flying time, Hawkins lands us on the airport runway, a maneuver that you can tackle after you've mastered several water landings.
It's a bit trickier since it requires more precision and knowledge about crosswinds.
At this point, if I owned this plane, I'd hook it up to a trailer, fold the wings up, drive it home, and park it in the garage.
Get some air time If you want your own ICON A5, get in line.
More than 1,800 customers have put deposits down.
For those who aren't ready to shell out $207,000 to buy one, there's the option of stopping by ICON's training facility in Tampa, or the facility in Vacaville, California, to fly for the day.
Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 Crowds in Fremantle, Australia, look at the supermoon on Monday, November 14.
NASA scientists say the moon is brighter than it has appeared at any point in the last 68 years.
Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The moon rises over Victoria Harbour in Hong Kong on November 14.
A supermoon occurs when the moon becomes full on the same days as its perigee, which is the point in the moon's orbit when it is closest to Earth.
Supermoons generally appear to be 14% bigger and 30% brighter than other full moons.
Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The moon appears over the Binhe Yellow River Bridge in Yinchuan, China, on November 14.
Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 Evergreen trees are silhouetted on the mountain top as a supermoon rises over a ranch in Silverthorne, Colorado, on November 14.
Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The supermoon is seen behind the Soyuz spacecraft at the Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on November 14.
Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The supermoon is seen in Beijing on November 14.
Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 A man rides a horse past people watching the supermoon in Chennai, India, on November 14.
Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The supermoon rises behind the Propylaea above the Ancient Acropolis hill in Athens, Greece, on November 14.
Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The supermoon is seen above a statue in Vienna, Austria, on November 14.
Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The moon rises behind the Almodovar castle in Cordoba, Spain, on Sunday, November 13.
Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The supermoon appears behind the MesseTurm tower in Frankfurt, Germany, on November 13.
Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 A passenger plane passes in front of the moon, as seen from Whittier, California, on November 13.
Hide Caption 12 of 13
Story highlights Shane Kimbrough is a NASA astronaut He voted in the 2016 election (CNN) From infinity and beyond, he found a way to vote.
Shane Kimbrough, a NASA astronaut currently living on board the International Space Station, filed his ballot in Tuesday's presidential election, according to a Tumblr post by NASA NASA told Yahoo News that Kimbrough filed his ballot in the 2016 election from the space station sometime over the past few days.
For astronauts who will be in space on Election Day, the voting process starts a year before launch.
At that time, they are able to select the elections in which they want to participate.
Then, six months before the election, astronauts are provided with the form "Voter Registration and Absentee Ballot Request -- Federal Post Card Application."
Image Kjell Lindgren released on social media of the US flag floating in the Cupola module.
Read More
Story highlights Africa will launch its first private satellite into space It's been built by schoolgirls (CNN) They may be teenagers, but 17-year-old Brittany Bull and 16-year-old Sesam Mngqengqiswa have grand ambitions -- to launch Africa's first private satellite into space in 2019.
They are part of a team of high school girls from Cape Town, South Africa, who have designed and built payloads for a satellite that will orbit over the earth's poles scanning Africa's surface.
Once in space, the satellite will collect information on agriculture, and food security within the continent.
Using the data transmitted, "we can try to determine and predict the problems Africa will be facing in the future", explains Bull, a student at Pelican Park High School.
South Africa's program aims to encourage girls into STEM, particularly astronomy.
Less than 10% of young women are interested in STEM subjects.
"Where our food is growing, where we can plant more trees and vegetation and also how we can monitor remote areas," she says.
"We have a lot of forest fires and floods but we don't always get out there in time."
Read More
(CNN) A six-month stay on the International Space Station can be a pain in the back for astronauts.
While they may gain up to 2 inches in height temporarily, that effect is accompanied by a weakening of the muscles supporting the spine, according to a new study .
Astronauts have been reporting back pain since the late 1980s, when space missions grew longer.
Their flight medical data show that more than half of US astronauts have reported back pain, especially in their lower backs.
Up to 28% indicated that it was moderate to severe pain, sometimes lasting the duration of their mission.
Things don't improve when they return to Earth's gravity.
In the first year after their mission, astronauts have a 4.3 times higher risk of a herniated disc.
"It's sort of an ongoing problem that has been a significant one with cause for concern," said Dr. Douglas Chang, first author of the new study and associate professor of orthopedic surgery and chief of physical medicine and rehabilitation service at University of California San Diego Health.
"So this study is the first to take it from just an epidemiological description and look at the possible mechanisms for what is going on with the astronauts' backs."
Like being in a body cast Much attention has been focused on intervertebral discs, the spongy shock absorbers that sit between our vertebrae, as the culprit for the back issues that astronauts face.
But the new study runs counter to that thinking.
In this research, funded by NASA, Chang's team observed little to no changes in the discs, their height or swelling.
What they did observe in six astronauts who spent four to seven months on the ISS was a tremendous degeneration and atrophying of the supporting musculature in the lumbar (lower) spine, Chang said.
These muscles are the ones that help us stay upright, walk and move our upper extremities in an environment like Earth, while protecting discs and ligaments from strain or injury.
In microgravity, the torso lengthens, most likely due to spinal unloading, in which the spinal curvature flattens.
Astronauts also aren't using the muscle tone in their lower backs because they aren't bending over or using their lower backs to move, like on Earth, Chang said.
This is where the pain and stiffening occurs, much like if the astronauts were in a body cast for six months.
MRI scans before and after the missions revealed that the astronauts experienced a 19% decrease in these muscles during their flight.
"Even after six weeks of training and reconditioning here one Earth, they are only getting about 68% of their losses restored," Chang explained.
Chang and his team consider this a serious issue for long-term manned missions, especially when considering a trip to Mars that could take eight or nine months just to reach the Red Planet.
That trip, and the astronauts' potential time spent in Martian gravity -- 38% of the surface gravity on Earth -- creates the potential for muscle atrophy and deconditioning.
The team's future research will also look at reported neck issues, where there can be even more occurrences of muscle atrophy and a slower recovery period.
They are also hoping to partner with another university on inflight ultrasounds of the spine, to look at what happens to astronauts while they are on the space station.
Yoga in space?
Because nobody likes back pain and muscle loss, Chang suggested countermeasures that should be added to the already two- to three-hour workout astronauts have on the space station each day.
Though their exercise machines focus on a range of issues including cardiovascular and skeletal health, the team believes that space travelers also need to include a core-strenghtening program focused on the spine.
In addition to the "fetal tuck" position astronauts use in microgravity to stretch their lower back or alleviate back pain, Chang suggested yoga.
But he knows that is easier said than done.
"A lot of yoga depends on the effects of gravity, like downward dog, where a stretch through the hamstring, calf muscles, back of the neck and shoulders are possible because of gravity.
When you remove that, you may not have the same benefit."
Any machines on the space station also have to be designed with regards to weight, size and even the reverberations they could produce on the station.
Scott Parazynski, who walked in space seven times, assisted with construction on the space station in 2007.
Chang and the other researchers brainstormed with a virtual reality team about different exercise programs that would enable astronauts to invite friends, family or even Twitter followers to join them in a virtual workout, making the daily repetition of their workouts more fun and competitive.
One of Chang's teammates has felt this pain personally.
Dr. Scott Parazynski is the only astronaut to summit Mount Everest.
He experienced a herniated disc after returning from the ISS to Earth.
Less than a year later, when he attempted to climb Everest the first time, he had to be airlifted off.
After a rehabilitation process, he eventually made the summit.
Now, he speaks to current astronauts about the ways they can contribute to studies about their health in microgravity.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Keeping the astronauts healthy and fit is the least they can do, Chang said.
"When a crew comes back, they say on one side of the space station, they see this beautiful blue planet," he said.
"Everything they hold dear to them is on this fragile little planet.
And they look out the other window and just see infinity stretching off into the blackness, and they come back with a different sense of themselves and their place in the universe.
"All of them are committed to furthering space knowledge and making incremental steps forward in any way they can for the next crew."
(CNN) "Attention!
Attention!"
blares the Russian voice from a loudspeaker.
"The nuclear bombs will be launched in one hour."
Inside a room styled as a Soviet-era nuclear bunker, a couple of Russians race to prevent a catastrophic strike on the United States.
Their quest -- the latest craze in Moscow -- is to find the nuclear launch codes and deactivate a hidden red button, which has already been pressed by a mad Russian general.
It's complete fantasy; just an interactive game hosted in a building in a former industrial area of the city, harking back to the fears of the Cold War.
But amid the current tensions with Russia, in which potential nuclear confrontation with the West has again been raised, it feels a little unsettling.
A mad Russian general has pushed the nuclear button - and gamers must stop missiles launching "I'm worried because there is very stupid information from both sides," said Maxim Motin, a Russian who has just completed the Red Button Quest game.
"I know that normal people all over the world don't want any war," he added.
A nation preparing for conflict But Russian officials have been preparing the nation for the possibility of conflict, stoking deep-seated concerns about a standoff with the West, Russia's old Cold War rival.
Russian television has been broadcasting a mass training exercise, involving up to 40 million people across the country.
It is designed to prepare responses, the government says, for a chemical or nuclear attack.
The Russian Emergency Situations Ministry issued this picture from a nationwide civil defense drill The video shows emergency workers with protective suits and gas masks leading the civil defense rehearsal, the biggest of its kind since the collapse of the Soviet Union.
It suggests the Kremlin wants Russians to take the threat of war very seriously.
Of course, all-out conflict between Russia and the West remains highly unlikely.
Analysts say the principle of Mutually Assured Destruction -- or MAD -- still holds as a deterrent, just as it did during the Cold War.
But with tensions growing over Syria, Ukraine, and the Baltic states, analysts say a small risk of contact, misunderstanding and escalation between the nuclear superpowers has become very real.
"I don't think nuclear war is likely," says Fyodor Lukyanov, editor of Russia in Global Affairs , a prominent foreign policy journal.
"But when two nuclear superpowers are operating with their military machines in the same area, very close to each other and they don't have proper coordination, any unintended thing can happen," he told CNN.
Kremlin playing up fears It is a risk the Kremlin seems keen to play up, with state television upping its hardline rhetoric in recent weeks.
In its flagship current affairs show, Russia's top state news anchor, Dmitry Kiselyev -- dubbed the Kremlin's propagandist-in-chief by critics -- recently issued a stark warning of global war if Russian and US forces clash in Syria.
"Brutish behavior towards Russia could have nuclear dimensions," he declared.
The Russian defense ministry has also released details of the latest intercontinental ballistic missile being added to its nuclear arsenal.
The Satan 2 , as it's known, will be the world's most destructive weapon, guaranteeing Russia's place as a top nuclear power.
It is an apocalyptic vision that adds a further sense of realism to the fantasy quest being acted out by gamers in Moscow.
"I know that now in schools in Russia they tell the children that our main enemy is the US," said Alisa Sokoleva, another Moscow gamer.
"But it sounds ridiculous to me and I'm totally sure that war is impossible," she adds.
The quest game players - pretending to be a special ops team - are the only ones who can avert war Back in the fake Cold War bunker, the Russian gamers have cracked the launch codes and deactivated the missile launch.
The United States, it seems, has again been saved from this virtual Russian nuclear attack.
Hopefully, the real world will be spared such a confrontation too.
Thinking about treating your family to a little virtual reality this holiday?
Have no idea where to start?
Don't worry.
From Google's inexpensive Cardboard VR viewer to Sony's new PlayStation VR, this guide will help you figure out what makes sense for your family's interests, needs, and budget.
Here are your options if you want to dip your toe in the water, wade knee-deep, or really swim with the VR big fish.
Keep in mind, virtual reality is a quickly changing technology, so always check out the companies' websites, professional reviews on sites like CNET , and user reviews before you take the leap.
Virtual Reality Viewers: Best for Families with Young Kids Virtual reality viewers are inexpensive, handheld devices that offer three-dimensional views and the feeling of being in a different place.
The viewers' lenses work by extending the depth of static images or animation but do not allow you to interact with your environment.
To use them, download any app labeled "VR" in either iTunes or Google Play, launch the app, and insert your smartphone into the viewer.
Most viewers use your phone's button or another basic input to control the action.
Key features Inexpensive Compatible with most smartphones and iOS or Android apps labeled "VR" (except for the View-Master, which uses specially designed apps) More like a 3D movie than true VR Best for educational content and games Products in this category Literally made of cardboard, this handheld device that you put together yourself is a fun, novel way of experiencing virtual reality.
Use with any smartphone and iOS or Android VR apps.
Google offers lots of different viewers, including the steampunk-looking Google Tech C-1 Glass VR Viewer ($14.99).
This is a comfortable viewer with adjustable lenses, a head strap, and an easy-to-use trigger input.
Comes with a cardboard, handheld motion-controller that adds some oomph to games.
Works with most smartphones and any iOS or Android VR apps.
Geared for learning rather than gaming, the View-Master is available in a range of packages that let you explore dinosaurs, space, wildlife, and more.
Each pack includes insertable picture reels (your phone provides the horsepower).
Works with most smartphones and specially designed View-Master iOS or Android apps.
VR Headsets: Best for Big Kids and Tweens Moving up in price and features are VR headsets.
They're similar to viewers in that you download VR apps from the app store and insert your phone in them.
Headsets work with the exact same apps as the viewers (except for the Samsung Gear VR and Google Daydream Viewbut give you a more immersive experience.
The advantages of headsets are that they're more comfortable to wear for a longer time, they fit better (preventing light leaks), they have better lenses, and they often have earphone ports.
That's why some people like to use them to view videos.
They don't make the videos three-dimensional, but they provide a personal-movie-theater-type experience.
They also typically have built-in game controllers on the headset itself or work with handheld controllers, giving you more options in apps than you would have with a simple viewer.
Key features Pricier than viewers Compatible with most smartphones (except the Samsung Gear VR and Google Daydream View) and iOS or Android apps labeled "VR" More believable, you-are-there experience, but limited ability to interact with your environment Good for games, educational content, and movie viewing Headsets have minimum age requirements set by the manufacturers; check the age before you buy.
Products in this category This big purple headset is made of flexible foam and has audio ports and dual input buttons for easy game control.
Works with most iOS and Android VR apps.
Made of fabric, this lightweight plush headset is designed specifically for Google's brand-new Daydream VR platform.
The platform includes Daydream-compatible phones (such as the company's Pixel phone), apps, and controllers.
Daydream View comes with a controller and the company says there will be 50 apps at launch , including games, educational content, and streaming services.
Designed exclusively for Samsung phones, the Gear VR includes an input pad on the side of the headset and works with bluetooth controllers, both of which let you navigate games easily.
Works with Gear VR-compatible games (including Minecraft Gear VR Edition).
Individually adjustable lenses, a snug fit, and a smartphone tray you can customize to your phone make the Kix a good option for quality VR on any smartphone.
Works with most iOS and Android VR apps.
Consoles: Best for 12 and Up Right now, the only VR gaming console is offered by Sony.
The company's just-in-time-for-the-holidays PlayStation VR headset works with the PlayStation 4.
If you don't have a PS4 already, you could buy the PlayStation 4 Slim or a PlayStation 4 Pro (also brand-new for the holidays) and the PSVR.
The headset plus the horsepower provided by the console provides an immersive, interactive VR experience.
Key features Expensive Limited to Sony PlayStation Games tend to be mature but plentiful, including Batman Arkham VR, 100ft Robot Golf, Final Fantasy XV VR, Battlezone, and Resident Evil 7.
Products in this category Includes everything you need to turn your PS4 into a VR machine, including a headset, a camera, two motion controllers, a game, and cables.
A newly redesigned, slimmer version of the PS4, this one has improved graphics, a lighted controller, and runs quieter.
Better graphics, faster action, and optimized to work better with specific "Pro-Enhanced" games Super-powerful headsets: Best for Teens You may have heard of the ominous-sounding Oculus Rift and HTC Vive.
These are the ultra-powerful VR headsets that provide a fully immersive experience; some call it "the Holodeck" in reference to the alternate reality from Star Trek.
Both require high-end, powerful PCs (which cost upwards of $500).
Key features Super expensive Require compatible games (for example, Everest VR is a Vive exclusive) and high-powered computers Full interactivity with your environment Games tend to be mature, including The Assembly and Deus Ex Mankind Divided.
Best for families with teens; Oculus Rift's manufacturer age minimum is 13; Valve states the Vive is "not for children."
Products in this category Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Offers a "room-scale experience."
If your kids play on the Steam gaming network, they've certainly seen ads for the HTC Vive, as it's made by the same company, Valve, that owns Steam.
Steam is offering some Vive-only games designed to take advantage of this headsets' unique capabilities.
Comes with everything to make VR a reality -- except the computer: a headset, a sensor, a remote, cables, an Xbox controller, and a game.
(CNN) What do Discman, Tamagotchi, and Game Boy have in common?
They're all landmark Japanese inventions from the 80s and 90s, symbols of an era when the Asian nation was a world leader in tech innovation.
But with the rise of Silicon Valley, and American tech giants such as Google and Apple, has seen Japan produce less era-defining tech over the past two decades.
That, says Professor Masahiko Tsukamoto, of Kobe University's Graduate School of Engineering , is about to change thanks to a new generation of young entrepreneurs, an uptick in international collaborations, and new partnerships with university scientists.
Japan's focus this time around is not on smart phones or gaming, but wearable chairs, smart glasses and dog communication devices.
In short, wacky wearable tech.
Wearable tech in Japan In 2013, Japan sold 530,000 units of wearable tech devices, according to Yano Research Institute That figure is predicted to leapfrog to 13.1 million units in 2017.
Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Apple Watch The Apple Watch , which will be available in April, can receive phone calls and send messages like an iPhone.
It can also track fitness data and even pull up emails and some apps, including CNN.
Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Google Glass Google Glass is an augmented-reality headset that can take photos and videos, provide navigation and keep track of reservations and bookings.
Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Ralph Lauren Polo Tech Shirt Wear this shirt, and information tracking your activity, breathing and cardiac rates is streamed to your smartphone and tablet via Bluetooth.
Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Hush smart earplugs Developed as the world's first smart earplugs, Hush claims to filter unwelcome sounds while allowing important phone calls and alarms to intrude.
Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel 1Voice beanie The 1Voice beanie is a warm, wireless way to listen to music.
Bluetooth headphones built into the knit hat stream music from your device.
Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Yelp Monocle augmented reality apps Yelp Monocle overlays the real-world view through your mobile device's camera with labeled restaurants, shops, bars, landmarks and attractions.
Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Flight Tonight: Last-minute bookings Next year will see more apps like Flight Tonight and Hotel Tonight, which minimize planning and make it faster and easier to travel on a whim.
Hide Caption 7 of 7 -- at launch, it was the largest wearable tech fair in the world with 103 exhibitors.
Perhaps the best indication of the boom in this industry was the introduction of Tokyo's first Wearable Expo in 2015-- at launch, it was the largest wearable tech fair in the world with 103 exhibitors.
It has featured electronic kimonos, cat communication devices, and electronic gloves to record a pianist's finger work.
At the next show, from January 18 to 20, 2017, the organizers expect more than 200 exhibitors and 19,000 visitors.
"With better functionality, lighter components and smaller designs, wearing devices is now no longer a fantasy," says show director Yuhi Maezono.
"Wearables are gathering attention as the next big growth market."
The dog whisperer Inupathy is a dog harness slated to launch at the end of this year that will allow pet owners to communicate with their dogs.
As well as a heart monitor, the harness features noise-canceling technology which can isolate the animal's heartbeat and track its reactions to stimulus, such as food, games, people and toys.
With this data, the harness assesses a dog's mood and changes color to inform the owners.
Equipped with six LED lights, the collar glows blue to show calm, red for excitement, and displays a rainbow theme for happiness.
Joji Yamaguchi, CEO of Inupathy, was inspired by his Corgi, Akane, who was a nervous puppy.
To better understand the dog's anxiety, the biologist developed Inupathy to monitor his heart rate.
Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out The dogs who participated in a MRI study about language processing, listen attentively to their trainer, Mrta Gcsi.
Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out Two dogs participate in a MRI training session, in which they learn how to remain still while in the machine.
Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out The trained dogs sit around the MRI scanner and listen to their trainer.
Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out A dog waits to be measured in the MRI machine as part of the study.
The dog can pull out of the machine at any time.
Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out A dog, named Barack, is lying on the MRI scanner bed during the study.
Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out Researchers Attila Andics (on left) and Anna Gbor (on right) sit with the dog, Barack, during the study.
Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out Anna Gbor (on left), Attila Andics, and Mrta Gcsi (on right) -- all researchers at Etvs Lornd University -- work around the MRI scanner during the study.
Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out Barack's proud owner gives him praise after he completes a successful brain scanning session.
Hide Caption 8 of 8 "I always felt like I couldn't understand Akane very well and I wanted to get be closer to him," says Yamaguchi.
"Buddhism and old Japanese religion says every animals, plants, and even rocks have spirit inside.
It's stressful when you can't solve problems that are upsetting them."
Yamaguchi expects wearable wellness tracking will have applications for humans, too.
"Personalization, of artificial intelligence will be a game-changer," says Yamaguchi.
"For instance, if you show a certain behavior before you start feeling depressed, predicting your depression from that behavior is extremely valuable for an individual.
An AI that works personally for you will eventually make this possible."
A real life-saver Archelis -- a wearable chair launched in Japan this year -- is also creating a buzz internationally.
A collaboration between Nitto mold factory, Chiba University, Japan Polymer Technology and Hiroaki Nishimura Design, in Japan, it was initially intended for surgeons, who need to rest their legs during long operations.
The chair enables its wearer to effectively sit down and stand up at the same time.
The Archelis chair.
"The Archelis concept is very simple, like the simplicity of Columbus' egg," says Dr Hiroshi Kawahira, the surgeon behind the concept.
"Long surgeries can result in back pain, neck pain, and knee pain -- especially for surgeons who are older."
Made of 3D-printed panels, Archelis does not require any electrical components or batteries.
The innovation is in the effective design: flexible carbon panels wrap around the buttocks, legs and feet to provide support and minimize pressure on joints.
The system stabilizes the ankles and knees, so the pressure from being upright is spread evenly across the shins and thighs.
Though the wearer appears to be standing, in fact, they are resting their back and legs while working on their feet.
Get to the point Other wearables are on the smaller side.
Measuring about 3 inches long, BIRD is essentially a modern thimble that turns your fingertip into a magic wand.
BIRD can control up to 10 devices at a time.
Using algorithms to decode a user's intent, the device also features precise sensors that track direction, speed, and gestures.
The technology enables users to turn any surface into a smart screen, as well as interact with other smart devices.
Walking around at home, users can project a laptop screen onto a wall, switch on a coffee machine, read on any surface, and make online purchases with the point or swipe of a finger.
The developers -- Israel-based MUV Interactive and Japan-based Silicon Technology -- expect BIRD to be embraced by the education and corporate sectors, thanks to its ability to create collaborative presentations.
For children and teens, using cell phones, tablets and computers at night is associated with losing sleep time and sleep quality, new research finds.
Even children who don't use their phones or the other technologies littering their bedrooms at night are losing shut-eye and becoming prone to daylight sleepiness, the analysis published today in JAMA Pediatrics finds.
The analysis found "a consistent pattern of effect across a wide range of countries and settings," said Dr. Ben Carter, lead author and a senior lecturer in biostatistics at King's College London.
Carter and his colleagues weeded through the medical literature to identify hundreds of applicable studies conducted between January 1, 2011, and June 15, 2015.
They chose 20 research reports involving a total of 125,198 children, evenly divided by gender, with an average age of 14 years.
After extracting pertinent data, Carter and his co-authors performed their own meta-analysis.
Few parents will be surprised by the results: The team found a "strong and consistent association" between bedtime media device use and inadequate sleep quantity, poor sleep quality and excessive daytime sleepiness.
Surprisingly, though, Carter and his team discovered that children who did not use their devices in their bedrooms still had their sleep interrupted and were likely to suffer the same problems.
The lights and sounds emitted by the technology, as well as the content itself, may be too stimulating.
Though Carter admits that a weakness of the analysis was "how the data was collected in the primary studies: self-reported by parents and children," many of us will probably recognize our own families' habits reflected in the statistics.
Electronic bedroom A large-scale poll conducted in the United States by the National Sleep Foundation (PDF) reported in 2013 that 72% of all children and 89% of teens have at least one device in their sleep environment.
Most of this technology is used near bedtime, that same report found.
According to Carter and his co-authors, this omnipresent technology negatively influences children's sleep by delaying their sleep time, as they finish watching a movie or play one more game.
Light emitted from these devices may also affect the circadian rhythm, the internal clock timing biological processes, including body temperature and hormone release, the researchers explain.
One specific hormone, melatonin, induces tiredness and contributes to the timing of our sleep-wake cycles.
Electronic lights can delay the release of melatonin, disrupting this cycle and making it harder to fall asleep.
Carter and his co-authors also suggest that online content may be psychologically stimulating and keep children and teens awake far past the hour when they turn off their devices and try to sleep.
"Sleep is vital for children," said Dr. Sujay Kansagra, director of the pediatric neurology sleep medicine program at Duke University Medical Center, who was not involved in the new analysis.
"We know that sleep plays a crucial role in brain development, memory, self-regulation, attention, immune function, cardiovascular health and much more."
Kansagra, author of " My Child Won't Sleep ," noted that the period of greatest brain development is in our first three years of life, which corresponds to when we need and get the most sleep.
"It's hard to believe that this would be a coincidence."
Kansagra said it's possible that parents underreported kids using devices at night, but more likely, the technology is simply interfering with sleep hygiene.
"For example, children who are allowed to keep devices in their room may be more likely to avoid a good sleep routine, which we know is helpful for sleep," he said.
Practicing good sleep hygiene Dr. Neil Kline, a representative of the American Sleep Association, agrees that sleep plays an integral role in a child's healthy development, even though "we don't know all of the science behind it.
There is even some research which demonstrates an association between ADHD and some sleep disorders."
In many respects, the findings of the new study are no surprise.
"Sleep hygiene is being significantly impacted by technology, especially in the teen years," said Kline, who bases his opinion not only on research but on his own "personal experience and also the anecdotes of many other sleep experts."
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Sleep hygiene -- tips that help facilitate good, continuous and adequate sleep -- include having a room that is quiet.
"And that would mean removing items that interfere with sleep, including electronics, TV and even pets if they interfere with sleep," Kline said.
One more important tip comes from the National Sleep Foundation , which recommends at least 30 minutes of "gadget-free transition time" before bedtime.
Power down for better sleep.
Other recommendations for good sleep hygiene include not exercising (physically or mentally) too close to bedtime; establishing a regular sleep schedule; limiting exposure to light prior to sleep; avoiding stimulants such as alcohol, caffeine and nicotine in the hours before bedtime; and creating a dark, comfortable and peaceful sleep environment.
In this June 20, 2013, file photo, an attendee takes a photo of the instagram logo during a press event at Facebook headquarters in Menlo Park, California.
Instagram stories have a quirk rarely seen in social media, NBC News reports.
Users generally have to make a conscious decision to look at another persons story by tapping on the small bubbles that appear at the top of the app, and the people who post stories can see which users opted to see their posts.
While that might sound like a small detail, it has given rise to a peculiar social dynamic, creating a cat-and-mouse game for users looking to catch exes, crushes, former friends and parents looking at their posts.
In mid-April, Gemma McLean noticed that her Instagram account was getting some stealthy attention from her ex-boyfriend.
McLean posted a screenshot to her Instagram story of the television show Riverdale with the message: Hey PSA: if ur my ex I dumped in literal 2012 when I was still at high school: I can see u checking my insta story everyday lmfao.
My thought process was honestly just getting the message across to him that I can see him being a creep without having to actually talk to him in the hopes that he would stop, McLean, 24, who lives in New Zealand, said.
Nothing like being lowkey publicly humiliated to put you in your place.
Facebook co-founder, Chairman and CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies before the House Energy and Commerce Committee, April 11, 2018 in Washington, DC.
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg oversaw plans to consolidate the social networks power and control competitors by treating its users data as a bargaining chip, while publicly proclaiming to be protecting that data, according to about 4,000 pages of leaked company documents largely spanning 2011 to 2015 and obtained by NBC News.
The documents, which include emails, webchats, presentations, spreadsheets and meeting summaries, show how Zuckerberg, along with his board and management team, found ways to tap Facebooks trove of user data including information about friends, relationships and photos as leverage over companies it partnered with.
In some cases, Facebook would reward favored companies by giving them access to the data of its users.
In other cases, it would deny user-data access to rival companies or apps.
Facebook denied that it gave preferential treatment to developers or partners because of their ad spending or relationship with executives.
The company has not been accused of breaking the law.
Sri Lanka Gov't Was Warned About Bombing Threats: Officials
Rideshare company Lyft is temporarily pulling its electric bicycles from three major cities after some riders reported braking issues, NBC News reported.
The e-bikes, which can be powered with electricity or by pedaling, have been removed from New York City, San Francisco's Bay Area and Washington, D.C.
Approximately 3,000 of Lyft's 20,000 bikes in those three cities have been pulled.
After a small number of reports and out of an abundance of caution, we are proactively pausing our electric bikes from service in three markets.
Safety always comes first, Lyft spokesperson Julie Wood said in an email to NBC News.
Idiosyncratic Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk released a surprise rap song about Harambe, the gorilla that was killed by zookeepers after a toddler fell into his enclosure in 2016.
Musk tweeted a link to a Soundcloud page for the song titled "RIP Harambe" on Saturday along with the message "I'm disappointed that my record label failed."
The song was released through an account called Emo G Records.
The song features the chorus "RIP Harambe, sipping on some Bombay, we on our way to heaven, Amen, Amen.
RIP Harambe, smoking on some strong, hey, in the gorilla zoo and we thinking about you."
The decision to kill Harambe by Cincinnati Zoo officials sparked controversy in May 2016, with many arguing it was unnecessary.
The incident also led to a variety of popular internet memes, which have kept Harambe's image in the popular online consciousness long after the news cycle of the inciting event ended.
Apple announced a new streaming service, Apple TV Plus, which will house its original shows and movies and could compete with Netflix, Amazon and cable TV itself.
Scott Budman reports.
It took a while, but finally and with the carefully curated help of Oprah, Big Bird and Goldman Sachs Apple has at last unveiled a new streaming TV service, its own branded credit card and a news subscription product.
The moves have been largely expected and so far don't appear to drastically alter the competitive landscape the way Apple has done with previous products such as the iPhone and the iPad.
Still, the announcements represent an important step for the company as it seeks to diversify how it makes money amid declining sales of the iPhone, even if by themselves they are unlikely to turn Apple's big ship either way.
But it's a way to keep fans sticking with Apple even when they aren't buying a new iPhone every year.
Monday's announcements lacked some key details, such as pricing of the TV service.
Here's a rundown on what Apple unveiled what's good, what's not so good and what we still don't know.
APPLE TV PLUS The good: Oprah, Jason Momoa, Big Bird, Steven Spielberg and a host of other stars have lent themselves to original Apple shows that range from documentaries to science fiction, drama and preschool television programming.
The focus on "quality storytelling" is consistent with Apple's image and analysts say is likely to produce some hit shows.
The bad: Even so, "it will lack the full range and diversity of content available through Netflix, Amazon and others, and that is set to limit its appeal," said Martin Garner, an analyst at CCS Insight.
Apple also joins a crowded market and it's not clear how many more monthly subscriptions people have the money and the bandwidth for.
The unknown: Apple hasn't said how much it's going to cost.
APPLE NEWS PLUS The good: The price, $10 per month, looks like a good deal compared to separate subscriptions for newspapers and magazines (Apple will include more than 300 of the latter, including The New Yorker and Sports Illustrated).
Apple is touting "richly designed articles" that let people read publications tailored to Apple devices in all their glory.
Apple has also included privacy protections, and says it will collect data about what people read in a way that it won't know who read what just how much total time is spent on different articles.
The bad: While The Los Angeles Times and the Wall Street Journal have signed on, other big-name news publishers, such as The New York Times, have not.
Nor have, in fact, most other major U.S. newspapers.
The unknown: It's not entirely clear how much news you're getting for your money.
The Journal, famous for its business and industry coverage and commanding nearly $40 a month, will make "specially curated" general-interest news available for Apple customers, for example.
Other stories will still be there but Apple says users will have to search for the articles themselves.
APPLE CARD The good: Security and privacy, two areas Apple prides itself on, are a clear focus.
The physical version of the card has no numbers, and the digital version lives in your Apple Wallet on your phone, where it's protected by Face ID or Touch ID so even if someone steals your phone they won't be able to use the card to buy things.
Apple says it won't get information on what you buy with the card or where or for how much.
There are no late fees.
The bad: The rewards (2 percent cash back for all purchases using the digital version of the card, 1 percent using the physical version and 3 percent cash back at Apple stores) are nothing to write home about.
The card is meant for Apple users, so if you aren't, it's probably not for you.
The unknown: What sort of credit score you need to get approved, as well as exact interest rates.
APPLE ARCADE The good: Apple's new game subscription service, which will launch this fall, will be free of ads and in-app purchases, which can quickly add up and have become common in mobile games.
Apple promises more than 100 games, and they will be exclusive to the service, so there will be plenty of fresh adventures.
The bad: The service will only be available on Apple devices, including iPhones, iPads, Macs and Apple TVs.
That could be frustrating for those who don't own Apple products.
Unknown: Apple said all games would be available with one subscription, but did not say how much it would cost or when exactly the service will launch.
It has partnered with a few well-known game creators, including Hironobu Sakaguchi of "Final Fantasy" fame, but it's unclear how well all the new games will work or how fun they'll be to play.
AP Technology Writer Rachel Lerman contributed to this story.
The world's largest medical device company has acknowledged that many of its implanted cardiac defibrillators use an unencrypted wireless protocol that could allow an attacker to change the settings of the lifesaving devices, NBC News reported.
The vulnerability affects more than 20 defibrillator models, monitors and programmer units made by Medtronic Inc. of Fridley, Minnesota.
The devices include implantable cardioverter defibrillators, or ICDs, which can correct dangerously fast or irregular heartbeat, and cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators, or CRT-Ds, which essentially are pacemakers that deliver small electrical charges to help keep the heart's ventricles pumping in sync.
In a bulletin issued late last week, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, assigned the flaw a vulnerability score of 9.3 near the top of its 10-point scale.
It said the flaw could allow a bad actor of "low skill level" to read and write any memory location on the implanted devices.
Medtronic acknowledged in a statement that the flaw could allow an unauthorized individual to gain access to the equipment's settings and possibly change them.
But the company and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration advised patients to continue using the devices while a fix is developed, adding that no one is known to have successfully exploited the flaw.
Sri Lanka Gov't Was Warned About Bombing Threats: Officials
Technology that could silence illegal scam and spam robocallers has passed a major test, and is now just months away from arriving on your phone.
Chris Chmura reports.
Technology that could silence illegal scam and spam robocallers has passed a major test and is now just months away from arriving on your phone.
On Wednesday, AT&T and Comcast announced they had completed the first-ever exchange of "authenticated" calls between separate networks.
Both companies hailed the test as a milestone ahead of rolling out new caller ID authentication for all phones nationwide by the end of the year.
A Comcast spokesman told NBC Bay Area the calls were made using ordinary phones and phone lines on Comcast and AT&T's digital networks.
The calls were verified using the new SHAKEN and STIR standards created by a coalition of phone service providers and technology firms.
It's known as "caller ID authentication."
Here's how it works: calls made from authenticated phone lines will come with digital "tokens."
When your phone receives a call with one of these tokens, it will display the caller's true phone number and a "VERIFIED" notification, so you know you can safely answer and trust your caller ID.
Spammers and scammers, who mostly use computers to generate fake caller ID and often operate overseas, won't be able to access the digital tokens.
Any calls you get from them will show up as "unverified" or can be blocked altogether.
The FCC has ordered all U.S. phone service providers to make caller ID authentication available on all phones and phone lines by the end of this year.
Comcast and AT&T said Wednesday that other major phone providers will be conducting similar tests, ahead of the nationwide rollout anticipated over the next several months.
Comcast is the parent company of NBCUniversal, which owns and operates this station.
Image caption The Samsung Galaxy Fold was supposed to be released on 26 April Samsung has postponed the release of its folding smartphone, days after several early reviewers said the screens on their devices had broken.
The company said it had delayed the launch of the Galaxy Fold to "fully evaluate the feedback and run further internal tests".
In April, several early reviewers found the display on the Galaxy Fold broke after just a few days.
Samsung has not said when the 1,800 device will go on sale.
A new launch date will be announced in the "coming weeks".
In a statement, Samsung said it suspected the damage experienced by some of the reviewers was caused by "impact on the top and bottom exposed areas of the hinge".
It also said it found "substances" inside one of the review devices that may have affected its performance.
Launch events due to take place in Hong Kong and Shanghai this week have also been postponed.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption WATCH: Hands-on with the Samsung Galaxy Fold The Galaxy Fold was due to be released in the United States on 26 April, and in the UK on 3 May.
The South Korean tech giant has said it is investigating what went wrong with the broken review units.
In some cases, reviewers had peeled off a layer of the screen's coating, mistaking it for a disposable screen protector.
"We will also enhance the guidance on care and use of the display including the protective layer," Samsung said in a statement.
Chinese rivals Huawei and Xiaomi are also developing foldable smartphones, but neither company has announced a release date yet.
Analysis by Chris Fox, technology reporter A phone priced at 1,800 - or $1,980 in the US - was never supposed to be bought by the masses.
But the launch of the Galaxy Fold was meant to showcase Samsung as an innovative and forward-thinking gadget maker, and draw people into its stores.
Now it is turning into a bit of an embarrassment, evoking memories of another botched launch: the "exploding" Galaxy Note 7 smartphone.
Samsung has been in a race to launch a folding device ahead of Chinese rival Huawei, which has announced its phone but not let reviewers take one home yet.
Both manufacturers say their folding screens can be opened and closed more than 100,000 times without breaking, based on laboratory tests.
But in the real world, reviewers have destroyed Samsung's device in less than 48 hours.
Perhaps the Galaxy Fold needed a little longer in testing.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Zombie rumours - false stories that refuse to die - are proliferating online From so-called zombie rumours - viral online stories that refuse to die - to the difference between misinformation and fake news, much of the talk at TED 2019 has been about the need to improve online conversation.
And this is not just because it would be nice to counter the vast amounts of online lies and propaganda with truthful and respectful debate, something the TED audience always prefers.
But because, a series of speakers said, misinformation is having alarming real world consequences - from influencing elections to causing deaths.
Image copyright Ryan Lash/TED Image caption Claire Wardle called on everyone to donate the weird stuff they see online to an open database Claire Wardle is the founder of First Draft News, a charity that fights misinformation.
She recently set up the Coalition to Integrate Values into the Information Commons (Civic).
It aims to build new infrastructure for quality information, something she described as a "Wikipedia of trust".
At TED, she asked "citizens of the internet" - whether everyday users, journalists, educators or software developers - to take part in the project, which will build a depository of the rumours, memes and propaganda circulating online.
It will attempt to throw light on where they came from and suggest ways to filter such content in future.
She began her talk with a typical online zombie rumour: a photo of a banana with a red mark on it.
The post suggested that the fruit had been injected with the HIV virus.
"Every day we see new memes like this.
Rumours that tap into people's deepest fears and their fears for their families.
Lies and facts sit side by side," she said.
It was not good enough for Facebook and Google to have their own fact checkers, or even for governments to regulate the web.
Such viral content needed to be gathered, stored and analysed in an open database, she said.
It is also time to stop using the term "fake news", which itself has become a false narrative.
"Fake news covers lies, rumours, conspiracy theories but it is also used as a term by politicians around the world to attack a free and independent press," she said.
Zuckerberg's ephiphany Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mark Zuckerberg has said he wants Facebook to be "privacy-focused" Roger McNamee is a venture capitalist and early investor in Facebook.
He became so disillusioned with the direction the firm was taking that he wrote a book called 'Zucked: Waking up to the Facebook catastrophe'.
He spoke at TED about how the unintended consequences of Facebook's business model, which relies on keeping users engaged, was also making the sharing of questionable content all too easy.
But, he said, it can be fixed.
"Mark Zuckerberg is one good night's sleep away from the epiphany where he wakes up and realises he can do more good by fixing the business model of Facebook than he can with a thousand Chan-Zuckerberg initiatives," he said, referring to the philanthropic organisation Mr Zuckerberg runs with his wife Priscilla Chan.
In conversation with TED curator Chris Anderson, Mr McNamee talked about how he had spoken to Mr Zuckerberg and Facebook's chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg nine days before the 2016 US presidential election.
He told them the company had a problem: he had seen a Facebook group, claiming to be part of the Bernie Sanders campaign, distributing misogynistic viral memes that looked like someone was paying for them to spread.
Mr McNamee was also concerned about a firm that had recently been expelled from the platform for selling data on people who had expressed an interest in Black Lives Matter and selling that data to police departments.
He told the TED audience that Mr Zuckerberg told him that they were "isolated incidents".
Shortly after the presidential election, it became obvious that Facebook had a much bigger problem when it emerged that 126 million Facebook users had been targeted by Russian trolls spreading misinformation.
Image copyright Ryan Lash/TED Image caption Many of the speakers on the TED stage expressed concerns about the current state of the internet Facebook has now acted on Russian interference and introduced new rules around elections, with tools to make political ads more transparent, listing who is placing ads and requiring them to have an address in the country the election is taking place in.
But, said Mr McNamee, much more needed to be done because the effects of online bad actors has now spread offline too.
"You did not need to be on Facebook in Myanmar to be dead.
You just needed to be a Rohingya," he said.
"You did not need to be on Facebook or YouTube in Christchurch, New Zealand, to be dead.
You just needed to be in one of those mosques."
He accused the tech giants of using "behavioural manipulation" to learn more about their users and improve services.
He gave an example from Google Maps and Google-owned navigation app Waze.
"Do you know how they get route timings for all the different routes?
Some percentage of the people have to drive inferior routes in order to them to know what the timing is."
This was helpful to building better routes but it was also "creepy", he said.
"The actual thing that's going on inside these companies is not that we're giving them a little bit of personal data and they're getting better ad targeting.
There is way more going on here than that.
And the stuff that's going beyond that is having an impact on people's lives."
Zombie rumour-mongers Andrew Marantz is a writer for the New Yorker who has spent the last three years tracking down the people that make manipulative viral content.
At TED he said that he discovered a complex picture, with the content makers ranging from disillusioned teenagers to white supremacists living in California.
"Some saw it as a way to make money online," he said.
"Some wanted to be as outrageous as possible - but I also talked to true ideologues.
"Many start something a sick joke and then they get so many likes and shares that they start believing their own jokes," he added.
He described one young woman who he spoke to who went from being an Obama supporter to attending white supremacist rallies after spending months viewing misleading political propaganda online.
The social networks need to take responsibility, he said, and it could start with a recode.
"Social media algorithms were never built to distinguish between good and bad or true and false."
"If the algorithms were build for emotional engagement, and that is having bad real world consequences, then they have to be optimised for something else," he said.
Parents are desperate to record childhood memories and the smartphone has allowed them to do this like never before.
But what is the best way to go about it?
If all the videos you took of your children growing up were damaged and you could keep only the pictures or the sound, which would it be?
I liked to tantalise myself with this question before I had children, and I imagined surprising people by saying that - despite being a video journalist - I would choose the sound.
There is something more evocative about it, particularly the voice.
To hear again a deceased relative, for example, is more arresting to me than to see a picture or silent video.
However, what I've actually found since becoming a parent is that there is another way of recording the fleeting moments of childhood, the results of which are more precious to me than either video or sound.
My preferred method still involves the smartphone, but it is focused on the power of words.
To explain the inspiration behind my method I need to recall my own childhood.
When I was around 10 or 11 years old, I became intrigued by a book I found on my parents' bookshelf.
It was called Conversations with Children, an anthology of transcripts made by a child psychologist called R D Laing, who recorded what his children had said.
It was full of all the wonderful, crazy, uninhibited ideas you might expect.
It was both entertaining and thought-provoking because Laing took the chance to explain the common patterns of emotional and intellectual development experts find in children.
He explained how during childhood we gradually come to understand concepts that determine our place in the world and what is possible within it: size, geography, time, empathy, ownership, societal norms, death.
I determined that when I had children I would record something similar myself.
Image caption R. D. Laing's 'Conversations with Children' was a bestseller first published in 1978 In 2009 I acquired my first child and Steve Jobs's third iPhone.
So I was part of the first generation of parents to have easy access to a stills camera, video recorder, audio recorder and digital notepad all in one handy device.
The early iPhones, having a fairly low resolution, didn't capture video very well.
But in any case, when my daughter started to speak her first words, I found that I had a strong impulse to write down what she said rather than film her - remembering Laing's inspirational book.
To begin with, I wrote her early words in an ornate, hardback book that I bought specially for the purpose, befitting the words' importance, I thought.
But this presented problems.
I soon became worried about losing it.
And it took time to find it when there was something to write down, meaning I might forget what had been said in the meantime.
I found it more convenient to write down the words in the Notes app of my iPhone, which I could always whip out of my pocket.
Once a month or so I could email the notes so I had a back-up copy.
Later, cloud computing would help.
I had never in my life kept a diary, but suddenly it felt vital to record the experiences unfolding around me as accurately as possible.
Some pitfalls immediately became apparent on appointing myself the family's digital scribe and archivist.
My fumbling on the phone was sometimes misconstrued as untimely and indulgent internet surfing - an injustice when I was actually engaged in the noble task of recording events for posterity.
You have to disengage temporarily from family life to make a decent stab of recording it accurately.
Of course I wanted to keep as accurate a record as possible.
But can words, recalled by a human, be as reliable as recorded video or sound?
One thing I've found from hours spent filming and recording audio at work as a BBC News video features journalist is that the most poignant moments are very difficult to capture.
You are lucky to have the mechanical equipment on and recording during that telling event that unfolded so quickly around you.
But by using that capturing device that is always on but invisible, known as our memory, any event, any candid, revelatory moment that unfolded suddenly out of the mundane, can be recorded and cherished.
The trade-off is you lose the 100% mechanical guarantee of accuracy.
There have been times when something wonderful was said so perfectly by my children, that I was determined to write down their precise words at the first opportunity.
Unnatural reactions But inevitably I would be confounded by a thousand preoccupations that looking after children throws your way, resulting in the mental agony that I couldn't guarantee to myself that I'd recorded the words correctly.
Longer, drawn-out conversations, of course - like an argument between two siblings over who has the larger spoon at breakfast - can't, unfortunately, be recorded verbatim.
Another issue I've encountered at work is the reaction of humans to being recorded.
As soon as the red light is on and the subject is invited to speak, everybody to some extent acts unnaturally, from the member of the public (nervous) to the media-trained professional (too polished, verbose and over-confident).
The most revealing comments - even when a story is completely uncontroversial - are made off-camera, when a person is relaxed and has forgotten the recording device is there.
This doesn't matter for the uninhibited toddler.
But certainly from around five years old, a child has developed enough self-consciousness and a sense of identity to change behaviour when they realise they are being filmed for others and for posterity.
You can tell this from the way they now produce a staged smile for a photograph.
This phase of child development is recorded in my own notes.
I begin to find references, from around the age of five, to the whole note-recording process, including requests for things to be written down because the subjects themselves realise what they have said is funny or otherwise noteworthy.
Occasionally there is an objection to the whole enterprise, for being embarrassing or boring.
Of course I'm sure I'm not the first parent to have written down the choice words their children have spoken.
But I am one of the new generation to benefit from having the smartphone to aid the enterprise.
In an age when parents are obsessively filming, photographing and sharing to social media, I think it's worth remembering the power of this simpler, in some ways more intimate, method.
It's something I came to appreciate even more as I witnessed my children learning to read and write themselves: the joy of being absorbed in a book you are devouring, the creative possibilities opened up by writing.
Both are so much more fulfilling than passively consuming an endless stream of games and videos on a mobile device.
Future-proof Recording childhood through a digital record of words also carries some practical benefits.
It avoids the nightmare of trying to sync videos from your phone and then organise and archive them in a safe place.
And it is also more future-proof, because you have to wonder whether, in decades' time, the video file formats you used will still be readable.
Today my children have both reached five years old.
The endearing, hilarious, uninhibited, sweet, surreal words still flow - although now they are more of a manageable trickle.
My book stands at 135 pages long.
When I look back on the notes, the power of these words is already greater than I could have imagined when I started the project.
To reread them stirs memories, recalling sights and sounds from the moment they were spoken, in a very vivid way.
Perhaps one day when I am frail in a care home this most precious book can be read to me.
Perhaps by my own children, if they visit.
And they will know that I was there and I heard every word.
And that I cared enough to record it.
You can follow Dougal Shaw on Twitter: @dougalshawbbc You may also be interested in: Gaby Eirew suffered two big bereavements in the space of a month.
Image copyright Getty Images Tesla said it is investigating a video on Chinese social media that appears to show one of its vehicles bursting into flames in Shanghai.
In a statement, the carmaker said it had sent a team to investigate the matter, and that there were no reported casualties.
The video, which has not been verified by the BBC, showed a stationary car erupting into flames in a parking lot.
Tesla did not confirm the car model but social media identified it as Model S. "After learning about the incident in Shanghai, we immediately sent the team to the scene last night," according to a translation of a Tesla statement posted on Chinese social media platform Weibo.
"We are actively contacting relevant departments and supporting the verification.
According to current information, there are no casualties."
The video showed smoke rising from a parked, white vehicle and seconds later it bursts into flames.
The time stamp on the video shows the incident happened on Sunday night, local time (Sunday morning GMT).
Previous incidents involving Tesla vehicles catching on fire seem to have happened while the cars were moving.
In 2018, a Tesla car driven by British TV director Michael Morris burst into flames, following another such incident involving a Model S model in France in 2016.
A series of fires involving Tesla Model S cars took place in 2013.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Mr Holch Povlsen is one of Denmark's richest men Three of the four children of Danish billionaire Anders Holch Povlsen died in the Sri Lanka bombing attacks, a spokesman has confirmed to the BBC.
The family were visiting the country over the Easter holiday.
The names of the children have not been made public.
Mr Holch Povlsen owns the international clothing chain Bestseller.
He is also the biggest single shareholder in clothing giant Asos and is the UK's largest private landowner, according to the Times newspaper.
"Unfortunately, we can confirm the reports," a Bestseller spokesman said in an email.
"We ask you to respect the privacy of the family and we therefore have no further comments."
Mr Holch Povlsen has a large property portfolio in Scotland, where he owns about a dozen estates including Aldourie Castle.
He bought them through his company Wildland, which describes itself as a "landscape-scale" conservation project.
Image copyright EPA Image caption The Holch Povlsens own several Scottish properties "It is a project that we know cannot be realised in our lifetime, which will bear fruit not just for our own children, but also for the generations of visitors who, like us, hold a deep affection the Scottish Highlands," Mr Holch Povlsen and his wife Anne say on the website.
"We wish to restore our parts of the Highlands to their former magnificent natural state and repair the harm that man has inflicted on them."
Victims unidentified The death toll in the Sri Lanka attacks is now at 290, following a series of blasts at churches and luxury hotels on Sunday.
Police have arrested 24 people, but no-one has claimed responsibility.
The vast majority of those killed are thought to be Sri Lankan nationals, including many Christians who died at Easter services.
Image copyright Bestseller Image caption Mr Holch Povlsen owns the clothing retailer Bestseller Authorities say they believe 36 foreign nationals are among the dead, with most still unidentified at a Colombo mortuary.
The international victims include:
Image copyright AFP Image caption Liverpool FC topped the list of Premier League club names used as passwords Millions of people are using easy-to-guess passwords on sensitive accounts, suggests a study.
The analysis by the UK's National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) found 123456 was the most widely-used password on breached accounts.
The study helped to uncover the gaps in cyber-knowledge that could leave people in danger of being exploited.
The NCSC said people should string three random but memorable words together to use as a strong password.
Sensitive data For its first cyber-survey, the NCSC analysed public databases of breached accounts to see which words, phrases and strings people used.
Top of the list was 123456, appearing in more than 23 million passwords.
The second-most popular string, 123456789, was not much harder to crack, while others in the top five included "qwerty", "password" and 1111111.
The most common name to be used in passwords was Ashley, followed by Michael, Daniel, Jessica and Charlie.
When it comes to Premier League football teams in guessable passwords, Liverpool are champions and Chelsea are second.
Blink-182 topped the charts of music acts.
People who use well-known words or names for a password put themselves people at risk of being hacked, said Dr Ian Levy, technical director of the NCSC.
"Nobody should protect sensitive data with something that can be guessed, like their first name, local football team or favourite band," he said.
Hard to guess The NCSC study also quizzed people about their security habits and fears.
It found that 42% expected to lose money to online fraud and only 15% said they felt confident that they knew enough to protect themselves online.
It found that fewer than half of those questioned used a separate, hard-to-guess password for their main email account.
Security expert Troy Hunt, who maintains a database of hacked account data, said picking a good password was the "single biggest control" people had over their online security.
"We typically haven't done a very good job of that either as individuals or as the organisations asking us to register with them," he said.
Letting people know which passwords were widely used should drive users to make better choices, he said.
The survey was published ahead of the NCSC's Cyber UK conference that will be held in Glasgow from 24-25 April.
Image copyright Rocket Lab Image caption Rocket Lab has had five successful launches from a base in New Zealand Peter Beck is a space entrepreneur with a rocket and launch pad in New Zealand that has permission for flights "every 72 hours for the next 30 years".
The 25 satellites his firm Rocket Lab has launched include one from a US high school, which designed a spacecraft to measure the atmosphere of Jupiter.
Mr Beck has no plans for human cargo and he does not want to go to space.
"I'm the chief engineer of a rocket company.
I know every little thing that can go wrong," he said.
Mr Beck spoke at the TED conference in Vancouver, where space has been a hot topic.
There are at least two female astronauts on the delegates lists - including one who took her watercolour set to the International Space Station "to pass the time".
TED attracts tech billionaires who could afford to become space tourists, but Mr Beck has his eyes on another prize.
"We have a fundamental policy that we will not fly meat," he told the BBC.
Instead his firm is concentrating on delivering small satellites from both the commercial and government sectors into orbit.
The Space Foundation has forecast that the international space industry will be worth $720bn (552bn) by 2030, with much of the growth coming from launching satellites.
"Satellites used to be the size of school buses, but now they have shrunk to the size of microwaves and that creates a need for small rockets to launch them," said Mr Beck.
It costs around $7m to launch Rocket Lab's Electron rocket from its base in New Zealand.
So far, it has completed five missions to deliver different payloads to specific orbits.
Its most recent was for the Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa).
While Rocket Lab is already launching rockets, many other firms are vying to compete, including Virgin Orbit, a sister company to Richard Branson's passenger rocket.
Image copyright Rocket Lab "Space is enormously hard, there are lots of considerations like infrastructure and regulation so there are huge barriers to entering this market," said Mr Beck.
Despite that, he believes we are heralding a new age of space entrepreneurialism.
"I used to wish when I was growing up that I was born in the Apollo era because I thought that was the golden time to be in space but, quite honestly, it is now," he told the BBC.
"If a high school can build a spacecraft and put it in orbit and do meaningful science, then we really have democratised space."
Rocket Lab is currently building a second launch pad in Virginia in the US and is even considering a third one in Scotland.
It may not happen because Scotland might not have the right trajectory for the rockets he needs to launch.
"People think space is just up, but when you put something in orbit it is not so much up as around," he said.
Rockets need different trajectories to hit the correct orbits, depending on where in space they want to be, and the site in Scotland could make launches "complex".
For the time being, Rocket Lab is concentrating on its US site, which is due to be completed in September.
Space junk As more and more satellites are sent into orbit, so the need to clean up space junk which can smash them gathers pace.
It is estimated that there are already nearly 26,000 objects orbiting the Earth and when they no longer work, they become floating and potentially dangerous rubbish.
Image copyright TED Image caption Moriba Jah has a platform to monitor Space junk TED Fellow Moriba Jah wants to tackle the problem and has designed AstriaGraph, an open database which brings together multiple sources of information to monitor space objects.
He is hoping that it can be used to help inform policymaking in future.
Mr Beck agrees that current regulation of space is woefully inadequate.
"When a lot of the laws were created, we thought it would only be governments putting things in orbit and the rules are not designed for the massive influx of lots of companies," he said.
"Space is truly global and while seas and airspace have boundaries, that doesn't work in space.
A spacecraft can't dodge a country, physics won't allow it."
Listen to more on Space at TED with Business Daily from the World Service
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Former BNP leader Nick Griffin and ex-Britain First deputy leader Jayda Fransen are among those affected Facebook has imposed a ban on a dozen far-right individuals and organisations that it says "spread hate".
The ban includes the British National Party and Nick Griffin, the English Defence League and the National Front.
The list also includes Britain First, which was already banned, but this latest action will prohibit support for it on any of the US firm's services.
It said it had taken the action because those involved had proclaimed a "violent or hateful mission".
"Individuals and organisations who spread hate, or attack or call for the exclusion of others on the basis of who they are, have no place on Facebook," the social network added in a statement.
Image copyright Facebook Image caption The pages of some organisations named were still present on Facebook before the announcement The ban includes: The British National Party and its ex-leader Nick Griffin Britain First, its leader Paul Golding and former deputy leader Jayda Fransen English Defence League and its founding member Paul Ray Knights Templar International and its promoter Jim Dowson National Front and its leader Tony Martin Jack Renshaw, a neo-Nazi who plotted to murder a Labour MP A spokesman for Facebook clarified what would now be done to the pages the groups and individuals had run on its site.
All those named would be prevented from having a presence on any Facebook service.
In addition, praise and support for the groups or named individuals would no longer be allowed.
The ban was "long overdue" said MP Yvette Cooper, chair of the Home Affairs Select committee.
"For too long social media companies have been facilitating extremist and hateful content online and profiting from the poison," she added.
"They have particularly failed on far-right extremism as they don't even have the same co-ordination systems for platforms to work together as they do on Islamist extremism," she added.
Ms Cooper said the measures were a "necessary first step" and should be strengthened by independent regulation and financial penalties for firms that were sluggish to remove material.
"We all know the appalling consequences there can be if hateful, violent and illegal content is allowed to proliferate," she said.
Image copyright Facebook This current action, said Facebook, went further than the restrictions placed on Britain First last year when its official pages were removed for breaking the site's community standards.
The latest move comes soon after Facebook said it would block "praise, support and representation of white nationalism and separatism" on its main app and Instagram.
Some controversial figures, such as Tommy Robinson, are already subject to bans on the social network.
Image copyright Getty Images A British man hailed as a hero for stopping a global cyber-attack that was threatening the NHS has pleaded guilty to US malware charges.
Marcus Hutchins, 24, has pleaded guilty to two charges related to writing malware - or malicious software - court documents show.
Writing on his website, Hutchins said he regretted his actions and accepted "full responsibility for my mistakes".
Hutchins has been held in the US since he was arrested by the FBI in 2017.
"As you may be aware, I've pleaded guilty to two charges related to writing malware in the years prior to my career in security," he wrote on his website.
"I regret these actions and accept full responsibility for my mistakes.
"Having grown up, I've since been using the same skills that I misused several years ago for constructive purposes.
I will continue to devote my time to keeping people safe from malware attacks."
Hutchins, from Ilfracombe in Devon, was credited with stopping the WannaCry malware which was threatening the NHS and other organisations in May 2017.
But he was arrested by FBI agents on 2 August 2017 at Las Vegas's McCarran International Airport.
He had been attending the Def Con conference - one of the world's biggest hacking and security gatherings.
Image copyright Rossiya 24 Russian state news channel Rossiya 24 has introduced a robot presenter for some of its bulletins.
'Alex' has already caused a stir, with some viewers complaining about his appearance and accusing him of peddling political propaganda.
The robot was developed by Promobot in the city of Perm.
His silicon head is modelled on the face of the company's co-founder Alexei Yuzhakov.
At the moment, the robot anchor can only move his facial features and neck.
However, the final robot will have fully mobile limbs as well.
Production of the robot began in 2017 and should be fully complete later this year, according to Promobot.
It said Alex had cost more than one million roubles ($15,600; 12,000) to develop and that it had received orders for 12 more humanoids.
Image copyright Promobot Image caption Promobot co-founder Alexei Yuzhakov (left) shows off Alex the robot Rossiya 24 said its newest presenter was of Russian origin with "software and almost all of its components produced inside the country".
Alex has delivered a number of bulletins for the channel, presenting news items about agriculture, a nuclear technology forum and micro-finance.
"I should note that at a technological innovations exhibition, the main hero was me, robot Alex," he said, with a smile, when presenting a segment about an artificial intelligence conference in Moscow.
But an item that appeared to have all the hallmarks of a smear against opposition activist Ilya Yashin was criticised.
"Meet Rossiya 24's new anchor, robot Alex.
Artificial intelligence, a talent for propaganda and an integrated fake news generator is available right in your box," one viewer said on Twitter.
Others mocked Alex's slightly rough appearance and clothes, his off-focus gaze and awkward facial expressions.
"Alex, if they are holding you hostage and force you to drink alcohol, wink three times when you go on the air!"
urged a viewer online.
One viewer took a shine to Alex and said he was a "very nice robot" while another said his deployment was "an interesting trend".
Most observers think on-air Alex is a temporary stunt to inject some fun and promote innovative Russian technology in TV news.
"For the first time a robot appeared as a news presenter on TV channel Rossiya 24," the channel said on its website.
"It is for TV viewers to decide how he performed.
Could robots replace journalists?"
it asked.
Reporting by Katherine Zeveleva and Karine Mirumyan, BBC Monitoring BBC Monitoring reports and analyses news from TV, radio, web and print media around the world.
You can follow BBC Monitoring on Twitter and Facebook.
Image copyright Reuters Facebook "unintentionally" uploaded the email contacts of more than 1.5 million users without asking permission to do so, the social network has admitted.
The data harvesting happened via a system used to verify the identity of new members, Facebook asked new users to supply the password for their email account, and took a copy of their contacts.
Facebook said it had now changed the way it handled new users to stop contacts being uploaded.
Data losses All those users whose contacts were taken would be notified and all the contacts it had grabbed without consent would be deleted, it said.
The information grabbed is believed to have been used by Facebook to help map social and personal connections between users.
Analysis: Rory Cellan-Jones, Technology correspondent Anyone who, like me, joined Facebook a decade or more ago, probably clicked "yes" when invited to upload all of their contacts.
It seemed a good way of making the network more useful and, after all, what could be the harm?
But after the various data scandals shattered trust in Facebook, we've become far more cautious.
We've woken up to the harms that could come from handing over that precious information about our social connections - for journalists it could mean revealing their contacts, for whistleblowers their dealings with regulators, for just about anyone their contacts with people they might not want their partners to know about.
Now we know that Facebook somehow scraped up the email contacts of 1.5 million people over a three year period without their agreement.
Now every time the social network suggests "people you may know", we will wonder "How do you know that I may know them?"
To many, the idea that they should trust Facebook with their data seems more old-fashioned by the day.
Contacts started being taken without consent in May 2016, the company told Business Insider, which broke the story.
Before this date, new users were asked if they wanted to verify their identity via their email account.
They were also asked if they wanted to upload their address book voluntarily.
This option and the text specifying that contacts were being grabbed was changed in May 2016 but the underlying code that actually scraped contacts was left intact, said Facebook.
Ireland's Data Protection Commissioner, which oversees Facebook in Europe, is engaged with the firm to understand what happened and its consequences.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Rep Ocasio Cortez said social media was a 'health risk' The email contacts case is the latest in a long series in which Facebook has mishandled the data of some of its billions of users.
In late March, Facebook found that the passwords of about 600 million users were stored internally in plain text for months.
The ongoing breaches and other criticisms of Facebook are also prompting some high-profile users to bow out.
The latest is Democrat Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez who said she had "quit" the social network.
In an interview with a Yahoo News podcast she said: "I personally gave up Facebook, which was kind of a big deal because I started my campaign on Facebook."
She added that social media posed a "public health risk".
Image copyright Samsung Image caption Samsung's folding phone was shown off for the first time earlier this year Earlier this week, Samsung sent out its remarkable new folding smartphone to a number of media outlets, including the BBC.
Perhaps now it wishes it hadnt.
Bloombergs Mark Gurman: Skip Twitter post by @markgurman The screen on my Galaxy Fold review unit is completely broken and unusable just two days in.
Hard to know if this is widespread or not.
pic.twitter.com/G0OHj3DQHw Mark Gurman (@markgurman) April 17, 2019 Report The Verges Dieter Bohn: CNBCs Steve Kovach: Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear.
Samsung said it had received "a few reports" of damage to the main display, and would "thoroughly inspect these units in person to determine the cause of the matter".
But its a significant setback to the companys hopes of wowing the world with what, at first glance, was a very impressive feat of engineering.
It appears one explanation for the problems is that some reviewers removed a film that went over the screen, thinking it was the typical protective layer you find on all new smartphones to keep the screen in good condition until you buy it.
Bloombergs Mark Gurman removed his, as did the highly-regarded YouTube reviewer, Marques Brownlee.
Steve Kovach, however, didnt remove the film - and said he still had major issues.
The device the BBC handled, incidentally, was taken away by Samsung shortly after filming was finished, so our team hasnt had a chance to see these issues for ourselves.
Our reviewer Chris Fox said the way the screen folded together - leaving a small gap - made him nervous about accidents that might occur with small objects.
But if the device struggles to this degree in the hands of seasoned reviewers, the return-rate could be huge, if and when it goes on sale to the wider public.
Remember, this is a $2,000 smartphone.
The reviewers having problems insist theres been no rough-handling of the devices.
"Whatever happened, it certainly wasnt because I have treated this phone badly," wrote Mr Bohn at The Verge.
"Ive done normal phone stuff, like opening and closing the hinge and putting it in my pocket.
We did stick a tiny piece of moulding clay on the back of the phone yesterday to prop it up for a video shoot, which is something we do in every phone video shoot.
Samsung stole headlines from its competitors by getting its apparently consumer-ready device out there quicker than anyone, a technological two-fingers in the direction of Huawei, the Chinese firm breathing down Samsungs neck in the smartphone game.
But its no good being first if you get it wrong - and put out a device that isnt quite ready.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Workers wanted the right to have "a neatly trimmed beard" Three years ago workers at US grocery chain Publix began an online campaign to reverse a ban on facial hair.
Seventeen-year-old Brandon Wesley started his Let Us Have Beards campaign on coworker.org, a platform aimed at giving workers who might not be in a union a way to express grievances.
Some 12,000 fellow employees, about 4% of the workforce, joined the campaign.
Following widespread media coverage, the ban was overturned.
Now shop staff can work with a neatly trimmed beard.
"You might not expect that to be a serious labour issue but it impacted a lot of people, including those with sensitive skin conditions and their stories were very moving," said website founder Jess Kutch.
She spoke at the latest TED (Technology, Entertainment and Design) conference about her desire to build "a labour movement for the 21st century".
The US has seen a rapid decline in labour union participation, with 93% of private sector workers currently not enrolled in a union, according to Ms Kutch.
At the same time, new ways of working are making it harder for workers to organise and connect with each other, while working conditions are deteriorating.
"Uber and Lyft workers report to work on a platform and are managed by an algorithm.
It is getting harder to find co-workers, there are no break rooms," said Ms Kutch.
Tech workers Thousands of Uber drivers turned to coworker.org to highlight their desire to have tipping built into the app used to order and pay for rides.
They shared stories about how the lack of a tipping infrastructure affected their lives and incomes.
Ms Kutch does not think the campaign on her platform was the only reason that Uber decided to incorporate tips on to the app but is sure that it played a role, by allowing workers to "share struggles and advocate for a solution".
Image copyright TED Image caption Jess Kutch wants to build "a labour movement for the 21st century" Google power Many of the campaigns on coworker.org come from the tech industry, with at least "a dozen inquiries from tech workers" each week, said Ms Kutch.
Issues range from the desire to create a strike fund, to helping with discrimination issues to helping employees highlight ethical issues about technology being developed.
Google employees have set a powerful precedent, with a series of worker-led protests about some of the firm's more controversial policies.
In November 2018, 20,000 workers at the search giant staged a walk-out in protest over the firm's handling of alleged sexual assault.
Others have lobbied successfully for the firm to abandon AI projects it planned to partner with the military and - most recently - an open letter called for the removal of Kay Coles James from a newly formed ethics board over anti-LGBT comments.
Google shut down the advisory council shortly afterwards.
Ms Kutch described the Google staff walkout as a "historic moment" for the modern workforce.
"That was something organised by Google employees just using Google spreadsheets and email.
Others in the tech industry saw that and it has inspired them to act."
And she expects to see many more campaigns on her platform from the tech industry.
"Increasingly tech workers are signing user agreements that bar them from their basic labour rights.
There are a lot of issues in this workforce," she said.
Image copyright Getty Images An age-check scheme designed to stop under-18s viewing pornographic websites will come into force on 15 July.
From that date, affected sites will have to verify the age of UK visitors.
If they fail to comply they will face being blocked by internet service providers.
But critics say teens may find it relatively easy to bypass the restriction or could simply turn to porn-hosting platforms not covered by the law.
Twitter, Reddit and image-sharing community Imgur, for example, will not be required to administer the scheme because they fall under an exception where more than a third of a site or app's content must be pornographic to qualify.
Likewise, any platform that hosts pornography but does not do so on a commercial basis - meaning it does not charge a fee or make money from adverts or other activity - will not be affected.
Furthermore, it will remain legal to use virtual private networks (VPNs), which can make it seem like a UK-based computer is located elsewhere, to evade the age checks.
The authorities have, however, acknowledged that age-verification is "not a silver bullet" solution, but rather a means to make it less likely that children stumble across unsuitable material online.
"The introduction of mandatory age-verification is a world-first, and we've taken the time to balance privacy concerns with the need to protect children from inappropriate content," said the Minister for Digital Margot James.
"We want the UK to be the safest place in the world to be online, and these new laws will help us achieve this."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Past moves to police porn in the UK Call to action It had originally been proposed that pornographic services that refused to carry out age checks could be fined up to 250,000.
However, this power will not be enforced because ministers believe the threat to block defiant sites will be sufficient and that trying to chase overseas-based entities for payment would have been difficult.
However, the government has said that other measures could follow.
"We know that pornography is available on some social media platforms and we expect those platforms to do a lot more to create a safer environment for children," a spokesman for the Department of Digital Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) told the BBC.
"If we do not see action then we do not rule out legislating in the future to force companies to take responsibility for protecting vulnerable users from the potentially harmful content that they host."
The age checks were originally proposed by the now defunct regulator Atvod in 2014 and were enacted into law as part of the the Digital Economy Act 2017.
But their rollout had been repeatedly delayed.
UK-hosted pornographic video services already have to verify visitors' ages, as do online gambling platforms.
'Porn passes' The British Board of Film Classification (BBFC) - which gives movies their UK age certificates - will be responsible for regulating the effort.
It will instruct internet providers which sites and apps to block for non-compliance.
In addition, it can call on payment service providers to pull support, and ask search engines and advertisers to shun an offending business.
The pornographic platforms themselves will have freedom to choose how to verify UK visitors' ages.
But the BBFC has said that it will award solutions that adopt "robust" data-protection standards with a certificate, allowing them to display a green AV (age verification) symbol on their marketing materials to help consumers make an informed choice.
One digital rights campaign group questioned the sense of this scheme being voluntary.
"Having some age verification that is good and other systems that are bad is unfair and a scammer's paradise - of the government's own making," said Jim Killock from the Open Rights Group.
"Data leaks could be disastrous.
And they will be the government's own fault."
Mindgeek, one of the adult industry's biggest players, has developed an online system of its own called AgeID, which it hopes will be widely adopted.
It involves adults having to upload scans of their passports or driving licences, which are then verified by a third-party.
It has said that all the information will be encrypted and that the AgeID system will not keep track of how each users' accounts are used.
Image copyright Mindgeek Image caption Mindgeek intends to launch its AgeID system soon in the UK High street stores and newsagents will also sell separate age-verification cards to adults after carrying out face-to-face checks, according to the government.
Dubbed "porn passes" by the media, the idea is that users would type in a code imprinted on the cards into pornographic websites to gain access to their content.
The BBFC has said it will also create an online form for members of the public to flag non-compliant sites once the new regulations come into effect.
"We want to make sure that when these new rules are implemented they are as effective as possible," commented the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC).
"To accomplish this, it is crucial the rules keep pace with the different ways that children are exposed to porn online."
The age checks form part of a wider effort by the UK's authorities to make the internet safer to use for young people.
Most recently, DCMS proposed the creation of a new regulator to tackle apps that contain content promoting self-harm and suicide, among other problems.
In addition, the Information Commissioner's Office has proposed services stop using tools that encourage under-18s to share more personal data about themselves than they would do otherwise.
Image copyright Getty Images Analysis: Chris Fox, Technology reporter The idea of the government keeping a database of verified porn viewers had sounded like a privacy and ethical nightmare.
Luckily it has dodged that bullet.
While ministers have ordered porn sites to age-verify users, they have not told them how they must do so.
That means different sites will have different systems Those "porn passes" that your friendly local newsagent may soon dish out are a theoretical solution, but there is no obligation for any porn site to accept them.
So, you may potentially have to verify yourself several times for several porn sites.
Despite the introduction of a new kitemark-like badge to identify cyber-security conscious systems, there's still a concern that some will suffer data breaches causing people's adult interests to be exposed.
Image copyright Netflix Image caption Sex Education, Bird Box and You have been big successes for Netflix Netflix is to start showing UK users a Top 10 list of the most popular programmes on the platform.
It will be the first time it has done this anywhere in the world.
It will be trialled for several months and show the most popular content over the previous week.
In a call to investors, company executives said they expected this would make it easier for viewers to engage in a "public conversation" about shows.
One media expert believes the lists will serve as a "promotional tool" by favouring Netflix-produced programmes.
In a letter to investors the company explained that it would release "weekly top 10 lists of the most popular content on our UK service".
However, the streaming service, which is typically tight-lipped about viewing figures, will not reveal how many people watch specific shows.
Users will only be able to infer the relative popularity of the most popular programmes to one another.
In a subsequent call, Netflix executive Greg Peters told investors that the lists should let viewers know "what are those most popular shows so they can watch and then participate in that public conversation".
'Promotional tool' Not everybody believes that the move is solely for the benefit of viewers.
"The point of the release of this data isn't for granular understanding as to what people are actually watching on the service, it is for promotional purposes," media-watcher Tom Harrington of Enders Analysis, told the BBC.
"Given its escalating spend on original content, Netflix is always keen to push the narrative that originals are what drive the service."
Mr Harrington expects the weekly top 10 lists to favour Netflix original programmes, which often receive prominent placements on the platform after their release.
"The list will disguise what is actually watched on the service, which is predominantly acquired content.
It will likely be dominated by newly-released originals, the demand for which often quickly declines soon after release."
he added.
The trial is expected to start in the next two months.
If the company judges it to be a success, Top 10 could be rolled out to users in other countries.
Image copyright Ubisoft Image caption Notre-Dame cathedral as it appears in the Assassin's Creed game The maker of the Assassin's Creed games will donate 500,000 ($565,000; 433,000) to the reconstruction of the fire-damaged Cathedral of Notre-Dame.
A digital version of the building, which featured in its 2014 release Assassin's Creed Unity, was modelled over a period of 14 months.
The company told the BBC that it would share the design with the French authorities, if requested.
"We would be happy to help," said a spokesman.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption A look inside fire-ravaged Notre-Dame cathedral The company - which has its headquarters near Paris - stressed that although the in-game representation of the structure was elaborate, it was not 100% accurate.
The in-game spire is different to the real one that caught fire, for example.
This is because the spire has changed throughout the cathedral's history.
"While we wanted to be very precise with details, there are some differences in terms of scale and with some elements, " Ubisoft game developer Caroline Miousse told the BBC.
"That being said, we would be more than happy to lend our expertise in any way that we can, to help with these efforts."
Digital copies The Ubisoft model isn't the only digital version of the cathedral.
A replica of the Gothic building was made by the Vassar College historian Andrew Tallon, who died in 2018.
Image copyright Andrew Tallon/Vassar Image caption A Notre-Dame cross-section made from Andrew Tallon's scans His model is made up of laser scans taken from more than 50 locations around the building.
Mr Tallon told the National Geographic in a video that the project is like "a giant detective puzzle".
"It really goes back to the fascination I had as a child, as a nine-year-old kid looking at this big stone building, Notre-Dame, saying 'how did they do that?'"
Image copyright Andrew Tallon/Vassar Image caption The images are made up of more than a billion data points "Andrew's initial goal in laser-scanning Gothic buildings was to understand their structure on a granular level" explained Lindsay Cook, a visiting assistant professor at the US college.
The images are made from a scan containing more than a billion data points, she told the BBC, which the college would be willing to share.
"While it will be up to the French authorities and the architect responsible for the restoration to determine exactly how to proceed, Vassar - of course - stands at the ready to co-operate with their efforts if called upon to do so," she added.
Image copyright Google Image caption Google has said that it will take longer to vet apps from new developers on its Android app store Android developers new to Google's phone platform could have publication of their apps delayed for days as more rigorous checks are done on coders.
Google said it was stepping up checks on app-makers it had not seen before to thwart "bad faith" developers.
These malicious developers often create new accounts to avoid Google's checks, it said.
Others hijack existing accounts to exploit the good reputation which established developers have accrued.
One cyber-security company said it expected the move to "have a positive impact".
"We find that malware authors often change their account information to conceal their identities," commented Kristy Edwards, from security company Lookout.
She added that one malware creator had been found to have used 707 different ID codes to try to evade detection.
Data control The "more thorough" checks will be done on application creators who do not have a "track record" with Google, wrote Sameer Samat, product manager for Android and Google Play.
Google would be taking days to investigate developers who open new accounts to see if they have links to "bad faith" developers who have a history of making malicious and unsafe apps, he said.
It was common to see such developers try to "game" Google's systems to get around the existing controls, he said.
App developers seeking to abuse the Play Store, or make malicious apps, would have their accounts blocked, he said.
Humans would make the final decisions on blocks and suspensions.
'More control' The closer look at developers follows other changes Google has made to its policies which have forced app makers to disclose what data they want to gather, and restricts access to some features on phones.
It has also insisted that app makers ensure their programs work with the latest, most secure versions of Android's application programming interfaces (APIs) .
Currently, app makers are supposed to target at least Android 9's APIs, which was released in August 2018.
In addition, said Google in a separate statement, the extra checks would help limit abuse of the personal information people surrender to apps.
"Users want more control and transparency over how their personal information is being used by applications, and expect Android, as the platform, to do more to provide that control and transparency," it told the BBC.
The increased scrutiny of developers was part of a "comprehensive look" it was giving to Android's platform and policies, it added.
Google's app developer changes come just ahead of its annual developer conference IO that is due to take place on 7 May.
A new Pixel phone is expected to be launched at the conference.
Image copyright xbox/getty Microsoft has announced a version of the Xbox One aimed at "digital natives" (basically, it doesn't use discs).
The Xbox One S All-Digital Edition is identical - inside and out - to the current Xbox One S console except for a lack of a drive.
Due out on 7 May, the makers want the 199 device to appeal to people who have "grown up without the discs".
So as CDs start becoming a thing of the past and DVD collections gather dust, are gamers ready to let go of discs?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Sony's PSP Go, which came out in 2009, was the first download-only console "Yes... reluctantly," says the owner of the Xbox One UK community Jon Pettman-Tideswell.
He tells Radio 1 Newsbeat the majority of people discussing the announcement in the 30,000-strong online group see it as "moving forward".
"There is that nostalgic thing of physically owning the product.
But in reality, is the stuff I play digital?
Yes.
Do I update digitally?
Completely."
Life-long gamer Joe Hirst agrees.
"If I could buy a console and have enough storage to hold 10-20 games then I'd be happy to do that," he tells Newsbeat.
"I wouldn't want to have to keep buying more physical games and fill up more shelves."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mainstream titles which appeal to younger gamers will be on the new console The new Xbox, which uses the same technology as current models, will have a 1TB hard drive (enough room for 20-25 games) and will be pre-installed with Minecraft, Forza Horizon 3 and Sea of Thieves.
It'll also come with a discounted subscription to Xbox Game Pass, which offers a library of more than 100 games for a monthly fee.
"They're effectively squeezing as much revenue as they can out of something they've already spent money on," Jon suggests.
"It's about testing the water for what the next generation of gamers are looking for.
It'll be an interesting experiment..." Joe says the digital-only feature alone, without major upgrades, isn't enough to sway him from his current allegiance to Sony's PlayStation.
"I just think this should have been released instead of the standard Xbox One S," he says.
"There is no need to have multiple consoles within the same generation."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption ...for discs?
Microsoft has been working on its next generation of Xbox consoles for a while now, and is expected to announce them at the E3 video game conference in Los Angeles in June.
Sony recently announced its next console, unofficially titled PS5.
It will be backwards-compatible with previous models' games and will feature 8K resolution and "near non-existent" loading times.
Sony hasn't referenced ditching the disc drive just yet, but it's thought the console will be out in 2020.
With that in mind, Joe says he "can't imagine" he'll end up buying the new Xbox.
"The appeal is definitely there so I won't say no, but with new consoles around the corner I don't think I can see myself spending so much on something I won't use long-term.
"Good idea, but bad timing for me."
But Jon can see the thinking behind it.
"Microsoft have been keen on pushing a digital solution, so it's reflective of where they're going and the Xbox One is coming to the end of its life-cycle.
"But is having no drive a gimmick?
Arguably."
Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube.
Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here.
Image copyright ASA Vodafone has been forbidden from re-running an advert for its home broadband service after it was challenged by rival Virgin Media.
The complaint centred on Vodafone's branding of a premium offering targeted at gamers and other heavy internet users as being Gigafast Broadband.
Virgin Media said that term implied that its competitor was providing speeds of one gigabit per second.
However, Vodafone's own ad recognised this was not typically the case.
It stated that the maximum average speed available was 900 megabits per second.
This was in line with rules introduced in May 2018 that restrict internet providers to only advertising download speeds that are available to at least 50% of their customers during the peak hours of 20:00 to 22:00.
When the matter was raised with the Advertising Standards Authority, the watchdog said it thought that most consumers would consider the prefix giga- to be a "hyperbolic description of speed".
However, it added that a significant minority could still be fooled into thinking the term referred to downloads of 1,000Mbps and higher.
The ASA considered the term might still be justified by the fact the service was capable of achieving speeds of 1Gbps outside of peak hours and/or to a minority of subscribers.
But it added that this would still not excuse the line "enjoy Vodafone Gigafast Broadband speeds for as little as 23 a month", since the lowest-priced package topped out significantly slower.
"We considered that the... claim, unmoored from reference to a specific package, created the impression that a service that could achieve speeds of 1Gbps was available for 23," the ASA said.
"In fact only the average 100Mbps package could be purchased for 23, while the average 900Mbps package cost 48 a month.
"We concluded that it was likely to mislead."
This marks the third time since September that a complaint about Vodafone's adverts has been upheld by the regulator.
Vodafone has since amended its website to say: "Our packages start at 28 per month for new customers purchasing Gigafast Broadband 100."
A spokeswoman defended the decision to retain the Gigafast branding saying: "We had made improvements to our website several months before the ASA ruling to ensure that the cost and speed of each package is as clear as possible."
Image copyright Getty Images A government department responsible for data protection laws has shared the contact details of hundreds of journalists.
The Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport emailed more than 300 recipients in a way that allowed their addresses to be seen by other people.
The email - seen by the BBC - contained a press release about age-checks for adult websites.
Digital Minister Margot James said the incident was "embarrassing".
She added: "It was an error and we're evaluating at the moment whether that was a breach of data protection law."
In the email sent on Wednesday, the department said new rules would offer "robust data protection conditions", adding: "Government has listened carefully to privacy concerns."
A DCMS Spokesperson said: "In sending a news release to journalists an administrative, human error meant email addresses could be seen by others.
DCMS takes data privacy extremely seriously and we apologise to those affected."
It is the second time this month a government department has made a mistake of this kind.
Skip Twitter post by @alexhern DCMS has just announced that the porn filters are coming online on July 15, in an email that cc's every media and technology journalist in Britain alex hern (@alexhern) April 17, 2019 Report The Home Office previously admitted breaching data protection rules when it launched the Windrush compensation scheme.
It shared the contact details of Windrush migrants in an email about the scheme.
An internal review was launched and Immigration Minister Caroline Nokes apologised "unreservedly" for what she said was an "administrative error".
The data breach affected five batches of emails, each with 100 recipients, Ms Nokes added.
Image copyright AFP Apple and Google have removed TikTok, which allows users to create and share videos, from their app stores in India.
The move follows a ruling by the Madras High Court, which ordered its removal from app stores over concerns that it was being used to spread pornography.
India's top court on Tuesday refused an appeal by its owner, Chinese company ByteDance, to suspend the order.
TikTok has more than 120 million users in India but has faced criticism from some for hosting inappropriate content.
Hugely popular with teenagers, it allows people to post short videos of themselves lip-syncing and dancing to their favourite songs, performing short comedy skits or completing challenges.
The app is already banned in Bangladesh and has been fined in the US for illegally collecting information on children.
TikTok users in India who had previously downloaded the app on their phones were still able to use the service on Wednesday.
The Madras High Court order asked the federal government to ban TikTok on the grounds that it encouraged pornography and made young users vulnerable to sexual predators.
It is due to hear the case again on 22 April.
In its court filing, ByteDance argued that a "very minuscule" proportion of TikTok content was considered inappropriate or obscene.
The company says it has more than 500 million monthly active users around the world.
Based on the preliminary ruling by the Madras High Court, India's information technology ministry sent an order to Google and Apple asking them to remove the app from their online stores, local media reports said.
A spokesperson for TikTok said the firm had "faith in the Indian judicial system" and that it was "optimistic about an outcome that would be well received" by its millions of users.
The company added that it had been increasing efforts to take down "objectionable content" and had so far removed more than 6 million videos in India that violated its user guidelines.
Google declined to comment on the order.
Apple did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Image copyright Getty Images Tech giants Apple and Qualcomm have agreed to settle all ongoing lawsuits, putting an end to a long-running battle with billions of dollars at stake.
"All litigation between the two companies worldwide" has been dropped, the firms said in a joint statement.
The surprise settlement brings an end to a long-running battle over the cost of the processors that phones use to connect to mobile networks.
Apple accused chip-maker Qualcomm of overcharging, a claim the firm denied.
The settlement includes a payment from Apple to Qualcomm, but the firms did not disclose its size.
The two firms have also agreed a six-year global patent licensing agreement and also agreed for Qualcomm to supply parts to Apple for multiple years.
This means that Qualcomm's modem chips are likely to be used again in Apple's newest iPhone models.
The iPhone used to rely entirely on Qualcomm's chips, but from 2016 Apple started using rival Intel's modem chips in some models.
Shares in Qualcomm surged 23% after the announcement, while Apple's remained flat.
Ben Wood, chief of research at CCS Insight said the settlement was "a huge vindication for Qualcomm".
"[It is] likely an acknowledgement by Apple that it had run out of options, particularly when it comes to 5G.
"There was a growing body of evidence that Intel, its current chipset provider, was struggling to deliver a 5G solution in a timely manner," he added.
After news of the settlement became public, Intel announced it would be withdrawing from the business of making 5G modems for smartphones.
The row between Apple and Qualcomm began in 2017, when Apple first filed a legal complaint.
It claimed that Qualcomm's dominance in phone technology let it get away with charging high fees.
Qualcomm has an extensive patent portfolio covering many of the technologies used in smartphones and derives a significant amount of its annual revenue through licence payments from phone makers.
It argued that its technology covers more than just these basic chips, called modems, and that is why it asked electronics firms to pay the fees.
Qualcomm had also accused Apple of using the legal system as a way to pay less for its technologies.
Image copyright Imperial College London Sensors small enough to fit in the ear, robotic devices and sleep monitors could all become standard technology in the homes of people with dementia, scientists say.
The idea is to keep people safe and independent in their own homes, rather than needing to go to hospital.
Scientists, engineers and doctors are working to develop the technology at Imperial College London.
They say much of it is affordable and "could be usable in five years".
Some of the technology already exists, but researchers at the new Care Research & Technology Centre in London now want to extend it and tailor it for use by dementia patients in their daily lives.
They are looking at developing an EEG (electroencephalogram) device which fits in the ear to monitor fluctuations in brain activity and using radar technology to track people's movements in their own home.
Image copyright Imperial College London Image caption A device which fits in the ear could monitor brain fluctuations in people with dementia The aim is for sensors around the home to pick up changes in patients' behaviour which could put them at risk of being admitted to hospital, such as a change in walking pattern that could lead to a fall, or an increase in body temperature which could suggest an infection.
Sensors and devices worn at home can monitor heart rate, blood pressure and brain activity, while tracking sleep activity.
The technology can then alert doctors or nurses at an early stage if there are any potential problems.
'Quick and effective' Trevor Truman, whose wife was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease in 2016, tested some of the technology as part of a trial in his own home.
Blood pressure readings from a sensor indicated his wife needed to see a GP.
"When we visited the GP, we were able to take my wife's data with us - using the app on my tablet - giving our GP an instant overview of her health and recent history.
"New medication was prescribed that day.
"It was quick, efficient and effective for us."
At one point, Mr Truman had up to 20 separate sensors or devices gathering data in his house - some monitored sleep patterns, room temperature or unusual movements.
Others monitored weight, body temperature and hydration levels.
Image copyright Professor David Sharp, Imperial College London Image caption How a healthy dementia home could look, according to researchers Prof David Sharp, neurologist and head of the technology centre, which is part of the UK Dementia Research Institute, Imperial College London, said the new technologies would improve support for people in their homes, while also improving understanding of how dementia progresses.
"They will allow us to intervene at an early stage, to prevent crises that so often lead to hospital stays, or a move to a care home."
There are 850,000 people living with dementia in the UK and this is forecast to rise to 2 million people by 2051.
One in four hospital beds is occupied by someone with dementia - and 20% of these admissions were due to preventable causes, he said.
Every six months, 50 people with dementia and their carers will be asked to test the technology in their own homes by the University of Surrey.
Image copyright Imperial college london Image caption Door sensors can monitor movements in the home and alert doctors to any changes The ultimate aim is to create "healthy homes" for people with dementia to live in using the technology.
Although it is not known how the technology will be funded, scientists said some elements would be free, like memory apps, and some sensors could costs as little as 10.
Payam Barnaghi, professor of machine intelligence at the University of Surrey, said: "Doctors will be able to have confidence in their ability to monitor people remotely and to react quickly to any worrying changes.
"Improving the quality of life of people with dementia is crucial to their and their families' overall wellbeing."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The final series of Game of Thrones comes nearly two years after the seventh season was broadcast Sky has apologised to Game of Thrones fans after it had problems streaming the show via its Now TV app on Apple TV set-top boxes.
The issue coincided with the highly anticipated premiere of season eight of the fantasy series on the firm's UK internet service.
Some users were unable to log in at all while others were shown poor quality video with smeared colours and green digital artefacts spoiling the image.
Other overseas apps also had glitches.
A spokesman for Sky said that only a minority of its overall Now TV user-base had been affected over the course of Monday evening but was unable to provide a detailed explanation for the fault.
"We know how big an event Game of Thrones is and we're sorry some fans had problems watching it on Apple TV," he added.
Image copyright Apple Image caption Apple plans to launch its own subscription service for its Apple TV box soon "We fixed it as quickly as possible and have put in place extra measures to make sure it doesn't happen again."
The programme had been available for most of Monday daytime after going live on the service at 03:00 BST.
While the problem was ongoing, Now TV's social media team had suggested that users try streaming the show via a different device such as a PlayStation, Xbox or native Smart TV app.
But annoyed viewers pointed out that since they had purchased their Now TV subscription via their Apple TV's iTunes account, they were blocked from streaming it to their television by other means.
However, Sky does in fact offer a way to extend accounts to other products via an online registration process.
While Sky's problems were limited to Apple's platform, there were reports of problems elsewhere.
HBO - the US network that makes Game of Thrones - acknowledged in a tweet that some Latin America-based members of its Go service were having problems.
Some had seen the service fail mid-episode.
Users who had purchased access to HBO via the US-based Hulu app were also mistakenly shown messages saying that the programme was "currently unavailable" or that their subscription did not include the series.
In both cases, the issues appear to have been solved.
Members of another US-based service, AT&T's DirectTV Now, had a more pleasant surprise when the streaming platform briefly made the episode available several hours before it was supposed to go live.
"When we became aware of the error, we immediately fixed it," said the firm in a statement.
Despite the variety of legal ways to watch Game of Thrones, many people have turned to pirated copies of the show.
According to the news site Torrentfreak, more than 120,000 people were actively sharing three torrented copies sourced from an Amazon download on Monday shortly after it had become available.
Image copyright Getty Images Sony has finally released the first details about its next PlayStation console.
Gamers have been waiting patiently to find out any information about PS4's replacement, but until now details have been kept firmly under wraps.
Now Sony's system architect Mark Cerny has released information about what the "next-gen console" will look like.
In an interview with Wired, he reveals it will be much faster, more powerful and include improved audio.
But don't expect to be able to buy one in 2019 - you'll have to wait until at least next year to see it on shelves.
Below, we outline all the new details we know about the PlayStation 5 so far, as well as the questions we still want answered.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption It's been six years since the release of the PlayStation 4 Much faster loading times Good news for avid PlayStation users - the new console will include a high-speed solid-state hard drive (SSD).
While that won't mean much to a lot of people, the point of the SSD is to dramatically reduce things like loading times - which will make everyone's gaming experience a bit better.
For example, when playing Spider-Man on a PS4 it can take 15 seconds to fast travel between different locations.
Cerny gave Wired a demonstration that showed the same task taking just 0.8 seconds on the new machine.
"No matter how powered up you get as Spider-Man, you can never go any faster than this," he says about the PlayStation 4.
"That's simply how fast we can get the data off the hard drive."
Improved audio Another big focus for the next-gen console is 3D audio.
Cerny tells Wired that as a gamer himself he was left frustrated that there wasn't much change in audio between PS3 and PS4.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The first PlayStation came out way back in 1995 "With the next console the dream is to show how dramatically different the audio experience can be," he says.
PS5 (which isn't the official name of the new console) will see gamers being immersed in audio from above, behind and from the side, according to Cerny, and will be experienced best through headphones.
Enhanced visual experience The next PlayStation supports ray-tracing graphics - the first time a game console has ever managed graphics like it, Cerny says.
They're usually used in Hollywood special effects, and occasionally in high-end processors.
It means users of the next-gen PlayStation will receive much better, and more realistic, visuals.
It's also worth noting that while the PS5 will have all of these improvements, you don't need to worry about compatibility with PS4 games.
The new console will still take physical discs, and gamers can still play PlayStation 4 games on the new console.
What we don't know All the details that have been released so far are about hardware.
We still don't know: When it will be released - although Cerny says it won't be this year, so don't expect to get your hands on one in 2019.
How much it will cost.
The name of the console.
It's already being dubbed the PlayStation 5, but Cerny hasn't confirmed its official name - yet.
Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube.
Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The ICO is concerned that Facebook likes encourage children to over-share personal information Facebook and Instagram face limits on letting under-18s "like" posts on their platforms while Snapchat could be prevented from allowing the age group to build up "streaks", under new rules proposed by the UK's data watchdog.
It believes the tools encourage users to share more personal data and spend more time on apps than desired.
Likes help build up profiles of users' interests while streaks encourage them to send photos and videos daily.
The proposal is part of a 16-rule code.
Speaking to the BBC's World At One , the Information Commissioner's Office suggested that social media networks could avoid an outright ban on "likes" if they stopped collecting personal data when children engaged with them.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Snapchat displays a fire icon to represent streaks - which represents the fact that two members have messaged each other for several days in a row To ensure its success, the ICO added that online services must also adopt "robust" age-verification systems.
Location tracking In addition to calling for restrictions on children being exposed to so-called "nudge techniques", the ICO advocates internet firms make the following changes among others for their younger members: make privacy settings "high" by default switch location-tracking off by default after each session and make it obvious when it had been activated give children choices over which elements of the service they want to activate and then collect and retain the minimum amount of personal data provide "bite-sized" explanations in clear language about how users' personal data is used make it clear if parental controls, such as activity-tracking, are being used The ICO suggests that firms that do not comply with the code could face fines of up to 20 million euros (17.2m) or 4% of their worldwide turnover under the General Data Protection Regulation.
"The internet and all its wonders are hardwired into their everyday lives," commented Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham.
"We shouldn't have to prevent our children from being able to use it, but we must demand that they are protected when they do.
This code does that."
Her office is now seeking feedback as part of a consultation that will run until 31 May.
It is envisaged that the rules would come into effect next year.
The Internet Association UK - which represents Facebook, Snap and other tech firms - has already raised concerns.
"Any new guidelines must be technically possible to implement in practice, and not stifle innovation and opportunities for smaller platforms," said its executive director Daniel Dyball.
"We must be careful when designing regulation to ensure any technical challenges, particularly around age verification, are understood and taken into consideration."
Bad nudges Restrictions on Facebook's like button - which registers a user's interest in another user or advertiser's post - and Snapchat streaks - which count the number of consecutive days two members have messaged each other - are not the only nudge behaviours being targeted.
The ICO also says that apps should not: show boxes where the Yes button is much bigger than that for No use language that presents a data-sharing option in a much more positive light than the alternative make it much more cumbersome to select the high-privacy option by, for example, requiring more clicks to turn it on Image copyright ICO Image caption The ICO says nudge techniques like those above encourage children to make poor privacy decisions These, it said, exploit "human susceptibility to reward-seeking behaviours in order to keep users online".
However, the regulator said it was appropriate in some cases to use nudges that encourage children to opt for privacy-enhancing settings, or to take a break after using an online service for some time.
The ICO's rules follow a proposal from the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) for the creation of an independent tech watchdog that would write its own "code of practice" for online companies.
The suggestions have already been welcomed by the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC).
"Social networks have continually failed to prioritise child safety in their design, which has resulted in tragic consequences," commented the charity's Andy Burrows.
"This design code from the ICO is a really significant package of measures, but it must go hand in hand with the government following through on its commitment to enshrine in law a new duty of care on social networks and an independent regulator with powers to investigate and fine."
But the code has drawn criticism from the Adam Smith Institute think tank.
"The ICO is an unelected quango introducing draconian limitations on the internet with the threat of massive fines," said its head of research Matthew Lesh.
"It is ridiculous to infantilise people and treat everyone as children."
Analysis: Image copyright PA Rory Cellan-Jones, Technology correspondent This new proposed code arrives a week after the sweeping new regulatory powers outlined in the government's Online Harms White Paper and with much less of a fanfare.
But whereas the all-powerful regulator is unlikely to be in place for many months or even years, the Information Commissioner's Office expects to get its Children's Code of Practice into law this summer.
That means that Facebook and Instagram - among others - will need to think rapidly about whether their platforms risk breaking the new rules.
The ICO made clear this morning that its problem with "likes" and "streaks" is not the features themselves but how they are used to collect data and target children with advertising.
So, if the platforms want to hold on to what they regard as useful elements of the social media experience, they'll have to show they work differently for children than for adults.
The other key demand from the data watchdog is to make the default privacy settings for platforms suitable for everyone including children.
That will mean adults having to opt in to the kind of data collection which is a key part of the business model of social media firms - so this code could pose a real threat to their bottom line.
Image copyright iStock Image caption Unlike TV programmes, social media platforms do not have to give warnings when potentially harmful flashing images are about to appear A growing number of people with epilepsy have said they are having seizures triggered by flashing images on social media, a charity has warned.
The Epilepsy Society wants the government's new plans to tackle "online harms" to recommend warnings about flashing images on social media.
More than 18,000 people in the UK are thought to have epilepsy that can be triggered by photosensitivity.
The charity says cyber-bullies post malicious content intentionally.
The Epilepsy Society says anyone found guilty of posting harmful images intentionally should be prosecuted for assault.
The government said it would consult with the charity on the issue.
Facebook - which also owns Instagram - said it had "strict policies in place to help people who encounter abusive behaviour".
Unlike TV programmes, which are regulated by Ofcom, social media sites do not have to give a warning when potentially harmful flashing images are about to appear.
About 20,000 people in the UK have photosensitive epilepsy - where seizures are triggered by flashing lights or contrasting, fast-moving images, according to the Epilepsy Society.
The condition is most common in children and young people.
Epilepsy Society chief executive Clare Pelham said many Facebook and Instagram users shared videos with potentially dangerous content without realising the risk they posed.
"However, when it comes to deliberately targeting people with epilepsy with the intention of causing a seizure... we need to call that behaviour what it is - a pre-meditated and pre-planned intention to assault," she said.
"The government must bring this behaviour within the reach of the criminal law."
Malicious social media posts appear to have useful information about epilepsy on them, but have images embedded designed to provoke a seizure.
The posts are tagged with keywords around epilepsy to "deliberately target those with the condition", the Epilepsy Society said.
'Absolute minefield' Sophie Harries, a 22-year-old dietitian from Somerset, was diagnosed with photosensitive epilepsy aged 15.
She said it used to be easier to avoid her seizure triggers, although she was not able to go clubbing, in case there was strobe lighting.
"That is still the case, but now I have to be careful of any videos uploaded to social media that contain strobe lighting or flashing imagery," she said.
"The videos tend to play automatically putting me at risk of a seizure.
If my friends have been out clubbing I have to avoid social media for a while."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Sophie says it used to be easier to avoid her seizure triggers.
She recently reported a film trailer to Instagram that contained flashing lights, but it said the video did not breach its terms of usage, she said.
"You can un-follow posts but they still tend to follow you around."
Speaking to BBC Radio 4's Today programme, Ms Harries said she recently came across a video containing flashing images, which was tagged deliberately to the Epilepsy Society's Instagram page "in order to harm".
"For a 15-year-old today it is an absolute minefield.
Young people are permanently on social media with friendship groups."
The Epilepsy Society has written to Digital Secretary Jeremy Wright asking for his reassurance that the new Online Harms paper will safeguard people with epilepsy.
A spokesperson for the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, said: "We will place a legally binding duty of care on companies towards their users, overseen by an independent regulator who will set clear safety standards.
"We are currently consulting on this, and want to hear from the Epilepsy Society, and others, about what steps they would like to see platforms take to make the internet a safer place."
A spokesperson for Facebook and Instagram told the BBC that "everyone deserves to enjoy the benefits of the internet safely", adding the organisations were exploring ways to make platforms "more inclusive".
Image copyright Getty Images Online retail giant Amazon's website is flooded with fake five-star reviews for products from unfamiliar brands, consumer group Which?
has claimed.
Household names were largely absent from top-rated reviews on popular items such as headphones, smart watches and fitness trackers, it concluded.
Thousands of reviews were unverified, meaning there was no evidence the reviewer bought the product, it said.
Amazon said it was using automated technology to weed out false reviews.
It said it invested "significant resources" to protect its review system "because we know customers value the insights and experiences shared by fellow shoppers".
"Even one inauthentic review is one too many," it added.
But Which?
's probe suggested fake reviews were commonplace.
When it searched for headphones, it found all the products on the first page of results were from unknown brands - which it defines as ones its experts have never heard of - rather than known brands, which it defines as household names.
Of 12,000 reviews for these, the majority (87%) were from unverified purchases.
One example, a set of headphones by an unknown brand called Celebrat, had 439 reviews, all of which were five-star, unverified and were posted on the same day, suggesting they had been automated.
Celebrat could not be reached for comment.
Image copyright Getty Images How to spot a fake review Do not rely on ratings - delve deeper and read the reviews Check the dates - look at when the reviews were posted.
If many of them were posted in a short time period, it's likely they have been computer generated and are fake Filter reviews to remove unverified reviews.
Only reviews marked as verified are those that Amazon can confirm were purchased on its website If products have hundreds or thousands of largely positive reviews be wary Source: Which?
ReviewMeta, a US-based website that analyses online reviews, said it was shocked at the scale of the unverified reviews, saying they were "obvious and easy to prevent".
The popularity of online review sites mean they are increasingly relied on by both businesses and their customers, with the government's Competition and Markets Authority estimating such reviews potentially influence 23bn of UK customer spending every year.
Which?
says its findings mean that customers should take reviews with "a pinch of salt".
"Look to independent and trustworthy sources when researching a purchase," says Which?
head of home products Natalie Hitchins.
Do you write fake reviews on Amazon?
Or have you fallen foul of a fake review?
Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist.
You can also contact us in the following ways:
Image copyright Twitter Image caption Hackers also added the Bitcoin symbol to the political party's logo Sweden's ruling Social Democratic Party is investigating after its official Twitter account suffered a hacking attack overnight.
Social media users were alerted to the hack by a stream of unusual activity, including anti-Muslim and anti-immigration rhetoric.
One post also claimed PM and party leader, Stefan Lofven, would resign.
It is unclear who was responsible for hijacking the account but the police have been informed.
What happened?
Early on Monday morning social media users noticed a string of odd tweets sent from the Social Democratic Party's Twitter account.
More than 20 tweets on a range of topics were shared before the party regained control of the account.
The tweets were subsequently deleted from the account's timeline.
"We contacted the police immediately and are working with Twitter," a party spokesperson told the BBC.
"Attacks on political parties are attacks on free speech and democracy.
We do everything we can to prevent these kind of intrusions."
What did the posts say?
The hijacked account made a number of false assertions and touched on far-right issues.
It also claimed the Swedish prime minister, party leader Stefan Lofven, would resign, that cannabis had been legalised and that Sweden's official currency had been replaced with Bitcoin.
The account shared a screenshot of a direct message it claimed to have sent to Social Security Minister Annika Strandhall.
Image copyright Twitter Image caption "You are fired," the message reads in Swedish Interspersed with the claims was anti-Muslim and anti-immigration rhetoric.
"One like equals one dead Muslim," read one tweet sent from the account.
"Celebrate that we have reached a record number of rape victims with raising taxes and opening up the borders.
Socialism for the win," another post read.
Another expressed support for the anti-immigration politician, Hanif Bali.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Hanif Bali: The anti-immigration immigrant politician Who's behind it?
It's unclear who hijacked the account or why.
"I do not want to speculate on what or who is behind the attack," a spokesperson for the party told the BBC.
But the hack targeted a centre-left political party and used its platform to make threats against Muslims, criticise immigration and joke about firing a prominent feminist.
It's entirely possible it's the product of trolling, but if so this is trolls reflecting far right views.
Since 2015, when more than 163,000 people submitted asylum applications at the height of Europe's migrant crisis, the Scandinavian country has become a regular fixture in international far-right discussions.
The nationalist Sweden Democrats have become a more pronounced electoral force, capitalising on widespread insecurity about immigration.
The party won 18% of the vote in the 2018 election, up from 13% in 2014.
Image copyright TED/Bret Hartman TED (which stands for Technology, Entertainment and Design) is famous for turning 17-minute talks into viral videos.
This year's conference has kicked off in Vancouver, offering a new set of thought-provoking talks under the tagline of 'ideas worth spreading'.
The theme for this year's conference is 'Bigger than Us' and includes talks from Twitter chief executive Jack Dorsey, the president of Sierre Leone Julius Maada Bio and journalist Carole Cadwalladr, who broke the Facebook/Cambridge Analytica scandal.
The conference has become a showcase for tech innovations, with the talks later shared online, some gaining millions of views.
Image copyright TED Image caption TED is held at the Vancouver conference centre in April every year TED is not without controversy.
Some view it as cult-like and insular, others do not like the fact that talks are heavily rehearsed and formulaic - most speakers will kick off with a personal tale - with one critic recently describing it as "amateur dramatics for intellectuals".
And the conference, which prides itself on spreading good ideas, found itself at the centre of a sexual harassment scandal when five people, including one of the speakers, complained about being harassed during its 2017 conference.
But most agree that its fellowship program has become one of the best things about the annual conference.
It offers around 20 "extraordinary innovators" a free pass for three conferences - tickets usually cost upwards of $5,000 (3,800) - and a platform to showcase their ideas and turn them into businesses.
They are also given mentoring with an expert dedicated to helping them expand their projects.
It used to be a sideshow of TED but is now an integral part of the conference - with day one dedicated to talks by fellows.
Now in its tenth year, the TED fellowship has created more than 400 fellows, and their talks have been viewed more than 250 million times.
The BBC, which has been attending TED since 2011, caught up with four past fellows to find out what being part of the TED community did for them.
The clever printer Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Video of cube self-folding strand courtesy Self-Assembly Lab, MIT / Stratasys In 2013, Skylar Tibbits had his own 'TED wow moment' when he showed off a 4D printer that allowed objects to self-assemble.
Since showing off his prototype system, Mr Tibbits has set up the Self Assembly Lab at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which now has 15 researchers.
He told the BBC he still gets emails on a weekly basis asking about his original TED talk.
"TED gave a platform to present my ideas and work and invite people to collaborate with us.
From that, companies approached us, funded us and collaborated with us.
"This opportunity really kick-started my career and gave a diving board for almost everything that came after," he said.
The global eye-test Image copyright other Image caption The phone can be used to look at the retina at the back of the eye and check the health of the optic nerve Dr Andrew Bastawrous gave a TED talk in 2014, showing off an app that allowed any smartphone to diagnose sight loss.
Since then, the research project has grown into a major social enterprise based in seven countries, including Kenya, Pakistan and Zimbabwe.
In Botswana, Peek Vision is working with the government to screen and test the eyesight of every school child.
Dr Bastawrous told the BBC: "Being a part of the fellowship has meant being with others who share a common path, a path to solve some of the biggest challenges today, alongside others walking this difficult but incredibly fulfilling journey.
The programme has equipped, supported and catalysed an idea that is now coming to life on a global scale."
The space archaeologist Image copyright TED Image caption Sarah Parcak accepted this year's TED prize Sarah Parcak has become a veteran of TED conferences, where she is easily spotted thanks to her signature Indiana Jones hat.
She gained the moniker 'space archaeologist' because she uses satellite imagery which she combines with sophisticated algorithms to identify subtle changes on the ground which could signal a hidden human-made structure.
The system has located 31,000 lost settlements, a thousand tombs and potentially 17 pyramids in Egypt.
Image copyright TED Image caption People will be asked to study satellite imagery which might not immediately make much sense to them In 2016 she became the winner of the TED prize - a $1m award offered to an individual to "spark global change" and she used the money to set up a website GlobalXplorer to crowdsource undiscovered sites around the world, allowing citizen-scientists access to imagery and the ability to spot and report sites.
Since its launch some 85,000 people have studied more than 16 million satellite images, and helped discover 29,000 potential features in 700 sites in Peru.
Prof Parcak said: "I don't think GlobalXplorer would have happened - at least not in its current form - without the seeds that were planted in my fellowship, now seven years ago."
Electronic lego Image copyright littleBits Image caption Ayah Bdeir is on a mission to give new tools to young engineers Lebanese inventor Ayah Bdeir became a TED Fellow in 2012, showcasing her littleBits kits which are made up of Lego-like bricks, with transistors attached, which snap together using magnets.
Each brick is colour-coded and has a different functionality, including light, sound and movement.
Her aim was to encourage a new generation of inventors.
In 2016, the start-up joined forces with Disney to create branded kits for movies such as Star Wars.
That ambitious program has been scaled back and now the two are focusing on educational partnerships, aiming to get more girls involved in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths).
Image copyright littleBits Image caption The electronic bricks fit together with magnets The kits are in 10,000 US schools and the new project Snap The Gap will see kits given to 15,000 girls in California, with the aim of reaching all US states by 2023.
Ms Bdeir told the BBC: "The TED Fellowship was a pivotal moment in my career.
It was a platform to really think big at the level of the world, not just technology."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The new law makes tech firms responsible for the copyright of the content their users edit and upload A revamp of the EU's copyright rules has passed its final hurdle and will now come into law.
The rules include a section known as Article 13.
It says that if users upload infringing content to a service, the tech firm involved must either make a "best effort" to get permission from the rights holders or quickly remove it.
The UK was among 19 nations that supported the law in its European Council vote.
But Poland was one of those that objected on the grounds that it could pave the way to internet censorship.
EU sources say that five other countries also opposed the rules - Italy, Finland, Sweden, Luxembourg and the Netherlands - while Belgium, Estonia and Slovenia abstained.
Google had led lobbying efforts against the law's introduction.
At one point it had featured pop-up notices on its YouTube video-streaming service warning that the effort could have "unintended consequences", including the blocking of some of its clips to EU-based members.
In particular, there was concern that memes featuring clips from TV shows and films could no longer be shared.
However, tweaks to the law subsequently made an exception for content used for the "purposes of quotation, criticism, review, caricature, parody and pastiche".
Even so, there is still a concern that smaller sites will struggle to track down and pay copyright holders or to develop content filters that automatically block suspect material.
Another controversial rule - which says that search engines and social media providers will have to pay news publishers to feature snippets of their content - also remains.
Wikipedia blacked out four of its European sites in protest last month.
It said the rules would make information harder to find online and thus make it harder for its volunteers to source information.
But European media industry leaders have welcomed the effort.
"Publishers of all sizes, and other creators, will now have the right to set terms and conditions for others to reuse their content commercially, as is only fair and appropriate," commented Xavier Bouckaert, president of the European Magazine Media Association.
Helen Smith, executive chair of the Independent Music Companies Association, added: "It was a long road and we would like to thank everyone who contributed to the discussion.
As a result, we now have a balanced text that sets a precedent for the rest of the world to follow, by putting citizens and creators at the heart of the reform and introducing clear rules for online platforms."
The EU's member states now have two years to adopt the rules into their national laws.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption About 3,000 bikes are being removed following reports that brakes are faulty Faulty brakes have forced Lyft to remove thousands of its electric bikes from three US cities.
Riders complained that front braking was "stronger than expected" on the assisted bikes, it said.
About 3,000 Lyft bikes currently in use in New York, Washington and San Francisco, are being removed.
It said an "abundance of caution" led to the withdrawal of the bikes from the 17,000-strong fleet which it operates across the three cities.
The assisted bikes, which are fitted with an electric motor to help people get around urban areas, will be replaced by traditional pedal-powered alternatives.
"Safety always comes first," said Julie Wood from Lyft partner Citi-Bike, which operates the services in the three locations on behalf of the ride-sharing company.
Ms Wood said riders had made a "small number of reports" about the problem, which led to brakes being jammed on sharply during some journeys.
Updated electric bicycles which do not suffer the glitch are being prepared for deployment in the cities, she added.
No date was given for when the replacements will be available.
Lyft debuted on the New York stock exchange in late March.
Reports of problems with the bikes came soon after the scooter hire firm Lime reported that a software bug led to injuries for a "small number" of its riders.
The bug meant that the scooters suddenly applied the brakes when riders were travelling at full speed downhill.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Apple wants to pay less to Qualcomm for the chips it uses in its phones Apple and Qualcomm will face off in court as a billion-dollar legal battle over smartphone chips gets under way.
The trial is the culmination of a long-running battle between the two over the cost of the processors that phones use to connect to mobile networks.
Apple claims Qualcomm is charging too much and that its control of the technology stifles innovation.
Qualcomm disagrees, saying that because it invented the chips it should be rewarded appropriately.
Courting costs The row between the pair began in 2017 when Apple first filed a legal complaint.
It believes that Qualcomm's dominance in phone technology lets it get away with charging high fees.
Foxconn and Pegatron, which assemble phones for Apple, have signed up to back the legal action.
Qualcomm has an extensive patent portfolio covering many of the technologies used in smartphones and derives a significant amount of its annual revenue through licence payments from phone makers.
It argues that its technology covers more than just these basic chips, called modems, and that is why it asks electronics firms to pay the fees.
Qualcomm has also accused Apple of using the legal system as a way to pay less for its technologies.
The trial is expected to last five weeks.
Its opening sessions will select the jury to oversee the trial and let lawyers representing each side give opening arguments.
Apple boss Tim Cook and senior Qualcomm staff are expected to testify.
Billions of dollars are at stake in the trial.
Apple wants to claw back billions it claims it has overpaid.
Qualcomm wants damages to punish Apple for breaching the contract it signed with the chip inventor.
If Qualcomm loses, the decision could have a significant impact on the way it operates, because other phone makers are likely to challenge the fees they pay.
The legal action between the two has kicked off investigations in many other regions and nations.
This has led to Qualcomm paying fines in China ($975m, 744m), South Korea ($853m) and Taiwan ($93m).
In early 2018. the European Commission levied a fine of 997m (860m) against Qualcomm for allegedly breaking anti-trust laws.
Qualcomm has appealed against the fine saying the case against it was "flawed".
Apple has also been hit by the fall out from the legal battle.
Temporary injunctions halting the sale of iPhone 7 and 8 models were granted in Germany and China.
In March this year, a US court ruled that Apple had infringed on three Qualcomm patents covering ways to improve battery life.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The travel plans of about 140,000 people were disrupted as a result of the drone attack The drone attack that caused chaos at Gatwick before Christmas was carried out by someone with knowledge of the airport's operational procedures, the airport has said.
A Gatwick chief told BBC Panorama the drone's pilot "seemed to be able to see what was happening on the runway".
Sussex Police told the programme the possibility an "insider" was involved was a "credible line" of inquiry.
About 140,000 passengers were caught up in the disruption.
The runway at the UK's second busiest airport was closed for 33 hours between 19 and 21 December last year - causing about 1,000 flights to be cancelled or delayed.
In his first interview since the incident, Gatwick's chief operating officer, Chris Woodroofe, told Panorama: "It was clear that the drone operators had a link into what was going on at the airport."
Image caption Chris Woodroofe led Gatwick's response to the attack Mr Woodroofe, who was the executive overseeing the airport's response to the attack - the "gold commander" - also said that whoever was piloting the drone could either see what was happening on the runway, or was following the airport's actions by eavesdropping on radio or internet communications.
And whoever was responsible for the attack had "specifically selected" a drone which could not be seen by the DJI Aeroscope drone detection system that the airport was testing at the time, he added.
'No overreaction' Despite a huge operation drawing resources from five other forces and a 50,000 reward, there is still no trace of the culprit.
Sussex Police says its investigation is ongoing and expected to take "some months to complete".
The first sighting of the drone was at 21:03 GMT on 19 December but it was not until 05:57 GMT on 21 December that flights resumed with an aircraft landing.
Gatwick says it repeatedly tried to reopen the runway but on each occasion the drone reappeared.
Airport protocol mandates that the runway be closed if a drone is present.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The military deployed equipment at the airport after the drone sightings Mr Woodroofe denied claims the airport overreacted, describing the situation it faced as an unprecedented, "malicious" and "criminal" incident.
"There is absolutely nothing that I would do differently when I look back at the incident, because ultimately, my number one priority has to be to maintain the safety of our passengers, and that's what we did.
"It was terrible that 140,000 people's journeys were disrupted - but everyone was safe."
Mr Woodroofe also dismissed the suggestion that the number of sightings had been exaggerated - and a theory, circulating online, that there had been no drone at all.
These claims have been fuelled by the fact that there are no verified pictures of the drone, and very few eyewitnesses have spoken publicly.
Police told the BBC they had recorded 130 separate credible drone sightings by a total of 115 people, all but six of whom were professionals, including police officers, security personnel, air traffic control staff and pilots.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Gatwick's runway was shut for 33 hours Image copyright Getty Images Image caption About 1,000 flights were cancelled or delayed Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The runway reopened on the morning of 21 December Mr Woodroofe said that many of the drone sightings were by people he knew personally and trusted - "members of my team, people I have worked with for a decade, people who have worked for thirty years on the airfield, who fully understand the implications of reporting a drone sighting".
"They knew they'd seen a drone.
I know they saw a drone.
We appropriately closed the airport."
Panorama has been told witnesses reported seeing an extremely fast-moving, large drone with bright lights.
At least one person noted the characteristic cross shape while others described it as "industrial or commercial" and "not something you could pop into Argos for", an airport spokesperson said.
Threat remains Other international airports have installed counter-drone technology and Gatwick has confirmed that, in the days after the attack, it spent 5m on similar equipment.
Asked whether Gatwick should have done more to protect the airport from drones before the incident, Mr Woodroofe said the government had not approved any equipment for drone detection at that stage.
"The equipment I have on site today is painted sand yellow because it comes straight from the military environment," he added.
Panorama has learned that Gatwick bought two sets of the AUDS (Anti-UAV Defence System) anti-drone system made by a consortium of three British companies.
AUDS was one of two systems the military deployed at the airport on the evening of 20 December.
Image caption The AUDS anti-drone system at work Image caption Gatwick has purchased new equipment since the disruption Mr Woodroofe said he was confident that the airport was now much better protected.
"We would know the drone was arriving on site and we'd know where that drone had come from, where it was going to, and we'd have a much better chance of catching the perpetrator."
Every day, he said, the airport sends up a drone to test the detection equipment, and "it finds that drone".
But he added: "What this incident has demonstrated is that a drone operator with malicious intent can cause serious disruption to airport operations.
"And it's clear that disruption could be carried over into other industries and other environments."
Panorama, The Gatwick Drone Attack, will be shown on BBC One at 20:30 BST on Monday 15 April and on BBC iPlayer It will also be shown on BBC World News at a later date
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Upstart offers online lessons, and says it is something children should do with their parents The TED talk organisers have announced the Audacious Project, a $280m (215m) prize fund to be shared across eight projects it feels tackle the world's toughest challenges.
But already one of the recipients of the funding has been criticised.
Waterford Upstart plans to provide online pre-school education to 250,000 children in the US.
The Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood (CCFC) has called on TED to reconsider the award.
The row coincides with the TED2019 conference - a week of presentations themed on technology, entertainment and design in Vancouver, Canada.
Open letter The Upstart project started in Utah and is now in 15 other US states.
It offers a daily programme of screen-based activities lasting 15 minutes to children from low-income families or rural communities, who would otherwise not be able to receive early-years education.
It says there are 2.2 million children each year who do not have access to any publically-funded early-education programmes in the US.
The charity says it wants to help make sure all children enter school on an equal footing.
For those who cannot afford them, the project provides both devices and internet connectivity.
However, in a statement issued to coincide with the launch of the prize fund, the CCFC, in conjunction with Defending the Early Years (DEY), wrote an open letter to TED.
"Firms like Upstart are poor substitutes for high-quality education, and funding online programs instead of high-quality early education will make inequality worse, not better," it read.
Nancy Carlsson-Paige, an educational professor at Lesley University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, added in the letter: "Kids learn by playing, exploring and interacting with adults - not by memorising letters, numbers and colours presented to them on screens."
In response, Upstart told the BBC that it was not an online platform but instead promoted "kindergarten readiness".
"We fully believe children need to learn through play, but technology is a wonderful tool if used correctly," it added.
Police bias In total the Audacious Project has raised more than $280m, from a vast range of organisations and individuals, including the Skoll Foundation, Virgin Unite and Dalio Philanthropies.
At launch, TED curator Chris Anderson said that each one of the winning projects had been "vetted".
"At a time when many people are fearful about humanity's prospects, these projects offer a beautiful counter-narrative of ingenuity, determination and hope," he said as he announced the winners.
The other winning projects are:
Image copyright Impossible Foods Image caption Impossible Foods has just launched its plant-based meat burger in Burger King Bruce Friedrich has been a vegetarian for 30 years but he has recently been enjoying the taste of meat again.
The burgers he has been tucking into have been described by Bill Gates as "the future of food" - lab-grown meat culled from the cells of animals.
Mr Friedrich was at the TED (Technology, Entertainment and Design) conference to talk about how lab-grown meat could feed an ever-increasing population and solve environmental issues.
The firm Beyond Meat was also in Vancouver to give delegates a taste of its plant-based meat substitute.
Beyond Meat, along with Silicon Valley firm Impossible Foods, are already offering plant-based meat alternatives but there are dozens of firms experimenting with developing meat products which takes the cells of living animals and 'grows' meat from them.
Mr Friedrich thinks the general public will get their first taste of cell-based meat in 2020 but, initially at least, will have to pay a premium of around $50 (38).
The founder of the Good Food Institute, an organisation supporting the creation of plant and cell-based meat, has become one of this year's TED fellows.
His think tank has ploughed $2.8m (2.1m) into 14 projects which are developing ways to grow meat and scale it up to mass production - and hoping to get the price tag down in the process.
Image copyright TED/Ryan Lash Image caption Mr Friedrich campaigns for a new approach to meat production Cultured meat, or clean meat as it is sometimes called because of its low environmental impact, has the ability to transform farming, Mr Friedrich told the BBC.
"We grow a massive amount of crops just to feed farm animals.
For every nine calories we put into a chicken we get one calorie out.
It is a fantastically inefficient way to create food," he said.
"And it is estimated that we need to provide between 70% and 100% more meat by 2050."
The demands of an ever-growing population, coupled with the environmental impact of intensive farming, means farmers have to look at alternative ways of producing meat, he said.
"We are not going to change human nature so we just have to change the meat," said Mr Friedrich.
'Not another veggie burger' And this new age of synthetic meat has little to do with vegetarianism.
"We hear vegetarians say that they don't want to eat these products and we say, partly joking, that we really don't care what vegetarians think of it," he said.
"This is not yet another veggie burger."
A clean meat "farm" will look very different - more like a brewery than a farm - and would not require any animals, said Mr Friedrich.
"The cells of the animals would be immortalised in cell banks," he explained.
"It would require 99% less land which means that farmers can move away from the 'get big or get out' theory of farming.
"There would still be farm sanctuaries where animals could live out their lives."
Traditional crops like millet might see a comeback and farmers would be able to work "more in tune with the soil".
This may seem like an idealised view of the future to some but already meat alternatives are going mass market.
A vegan sausage roll launched at UK bakery Greggs in January caused a flurry of headlines and a spike in the company's profits.
Meanwhile, Burger King is trialling its Impossible Whopper in 59 restaurants in the US with plans to roll them out across the country.
Burger King's new veggie burger is made by Impossible Foods, which develops plant-based products that replicate both the taste and texture of real meat.
Its 'secret' ingredient is heme, an iron-containing molecule that is credited by some with giving meat its 'meaty' taste.
My first taste of Meet Before heading to the TED conference in Vancouver, I took a detour to a restaurant called Meet in the city's famous Gastown district.
It is one of a chain of places serving Beyond Meat burgers.
As a pescatarian who had not eaten meat for 20 years, this was a new challenge.
At first inspection, the "meat" has the texture of the real thing but it was hard to say whether it was truly meaty, due to the amount of garnish in the burger.
The restaurant was packed with diners, all of whom seemed to be enjoying the plant-based meat.
Later, at TED I caught up with the company behind the burger and had another taste of their product, this time just a naked burger unadulterated with sauce or salad.
It doesn't taste like Quorn - the meat alternative I am most familiar with - but it doesn't entirely taste like my memory of meat either.
I enjoyed it but, as Mr Friedrich points out, I am not the target audience.
How convinced meat-eaters will be, I am not so sure.
Both Impossible Foods and Beyond Meat currently develop plant-based meat but there are also dozens of firms working on lab-based meat in Europe, the US, China, Japan and Israel.
And regulators are beginning to understand that they need to play a part, said Mr Friedrich.
In March, the US Food and Drug Administration produced a memorandum of understanding about how it would regulate the nascent industry in collaboration with the US Department of Agriculture, putting it on a more equal footing with more traditional food stuffs.
In countries that have food security issues or those, like India and China, which have to feed vast populations, Mr Friedrich anticipates that regulators will "roll out the red carpet" to firms offering lab-based meat.
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has flagged cellular agriculture as one of the five food technologies that could bring about real change in developing world.
But not everyone will be joining the revolution.
The UK's Vegan Society told the BBC: "We sympathise with the development of clean meat as it has the potential to eliminate animal suffering and reduce the environmental impacts associated with animal agriculture.
"We welcome any reduction in animal suffering but we can't support clean meat as animals are still used in its production - whilst these products include starter cells derived from animals, they aren't vegan."
Image copyright TED Image caption Jack Dorsey answered questions at TED on problems with his platform Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey has again admitted there is much work to do to improve Twitter and cut down on the amount of abuse and misinformation on the platform.
He said the firm might demote likes and follows, adding that in hindsight he would not have designed the platform to highlight these.
He said that Twitter currently incentivised people "to post outrage".
Instead he said it should invite people to unite around topics and communities.
"It may be best if it becomes an interest-based network," he told TED curators Chris Anderson and Whitney Pennington Rodgers.
Rather than focus on following individual accounts, users could be encouraged to follow hashtags, trends and communities.
Doing so would require a systematic change that represented a "huge shift" for Twitter.
On the topic of abuse, he admitted that it was happening "at scale".
Image copyright TED Image caption Chris Anderson asked Mr Dorsey why he seemed to lack urgency in dealing with the problems on Twitter "We've seen harassment, manipulation, misinformation which are dynamics we did not expect 13 years ago when we founded the company," he told TED curator Chris Anderson.
"What worries me is how we address them in a systematic way."
He has previously discussed the role played by likes and follows, which were designed to be prominent.
"One of the choices we made was to make the number of people that follow you big and bold.
If I started Twitter now I would not emphasise follows and I would not create likes.
"We have to look at how we display follows and likes," he added.
Ms Pennington Rodgers asked him why, according to Amnesty, women of colour on average received abuse in one of 10 tweets they posted.
"It's a pretty terrible situation," Mr Dorsey admitted.
"The dynamics of the system makes it super-easy to harass others."
He said that Twitter was increasingly using machine-learning to spot abuse and claimed that 38% of abusive tweets were now identified by algorithms and then highlighted to humans, who decide whether to remove them from the platform.
He also said that the firm was working on making it easier to find its policies on abuse and was simplifying them.
Asked if he would show urgency in dealing with the issues, he replied simply: "Yes."
Ask Jack The TED audience were invited to contribute to the conversation via the hashtag #askJackatTED, which received more than 1,000 questions within 10 minutes of the talk starting.
One of the questions came from journalist Carole Cadwalladr who spoke at TED on Monday and called on the tech firms, including Twitter, to directly address the issue of misinformation being shared widely on their platforms.
But in her question to Mr Dorsey, she turned her attention to abuse she has received on Twitter.
"I'd like to know why a video that showed me being beaten up and threatened with a gun to soundtrack of Russian anthem stayed up for 72 hours despite 1000s of complaints?"
she wrote.
Mr Dorsey did not address that question and neither did he answer another one about how to deal with the huge number of malicious bots posting misinformation.
He was also shown a graph created by Zignal Labs which showed the number of human tweets versus tweets from suspected bots talking about topics in the recent election campaign in Israel.
Bots seemed to dominate when it came to tweets about contender Benny Gantz, who was narrowly defeated by Benjamin Netanyahu.
Mr Dorsey was asked about this but did not answer.
Instead he said that the company was in the middle of measuring the "conversational health" of the platform, using a number of metrics, including how toxic conversations were and how much people are exposed to a variety of opinions.
"We have to create a healthy contribution to the network and a healthy conversation.
On Twitter right now you don't necessarily walk away feeling you learned something."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Carole Cadwalladr exposed the Cambridge Analytica data scandal The investigative journalist who revealed the Cambridge Analytica scandal has demanded answers from tech giants about political ads.
In her TED talk, Carole Cadwalladr called on the executives of Facebook and Twitter to come to the conference and discuss their role in influencing elections around the world.
Twitter boss Jack Dorsey is due to speak later this week.
TED curator Chris Anderson also invited Facebook to address the conference.
Alongside staff of the New York Times, Cadwalladr was named as a finalist for the prestigious Pulitzer Prize for journalism for her work on the Cambridge Analytica story.
It involved the discovery that an academic at the University of Cambridge used a personality quiz to harvest up to 87 million Facebook users' details.
Some of this was subsequently shared with the political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, which used it to target political advertising in the US.
Cadwalladr, who writes for the Guardian and Observer, used her TED talk to directly address who she called the "gods of Silicon Valley".
Many of the top executives of technology firms attend the TED conference in Vancouver, Canada.
"We are what happens to a Western democracy when elections are disrupted by technology," said Cadwalladr, referring to how voters in the Brexit referendum may have been influenced by online political campaigns.
"Technology has been amazing but now it is a crime scene," she added.
She said the technology giants had acted as "accessories to spreading lies".
'Wrong side of history' She challenged Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg to come to TED and criticised his refusal to address the UK parliamentary committee tasked with investigating Facebook's role in the Brexit referendum.
The Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee has suggested that the government makes major changes in electoral law to ensure future online campaigns are more transparent.
Image copyright PA Image caption Mark Zuckerberg refused to face a UK parliamentary committee Cadwalladr said that there were still questions for Facebook to answer.
"The whole referendum took place on Facebook and we have no idea who saw what ads, who placed them and what money was spent," she said.
"Facebook is on the wrong side of history in refusing to give answers," she added.
The BBC asked Facebook for its response but it has not replied.
The social network has changed its rules around political ads in the UK, asking anyone placing them to verify their identity and location, and prove who is paying for the advert.
People buying the ads must provide their identity by submitting ID, which will be verified by a third party.
They must also demonstrate that they have a UK address.
After Cadwalladr's talk, TED curator Mr Anderson promised to "hold a space" at the conference for Facebook executives, some of whom he said "were watching".
A challenge like this has been met before.
In 2014, former National Security Agency (NSA) worker Edward Snowden was a surprise guest at TED, appearing by telerobot from an undisclosed location in Russia.
After his talk, a representative of the NSA also made an unscheduled appearance at the conference, offering to be more transparent about its surveillance work in future.
Video Samsung has announced that its folding smartphone will go sale in April, beating a rival device by Huawei to the market.
The BBC's Chris Fox went hands-on with the Samsung Galaxy Fold to find out what the unusual device can do - and whether it can live up to its enormous price tag.
Video Virtual reality has been described in recent years as the future of gaming.
Headsets like the Playstation VR, Oculus Rift and HTC VIVE have moved the technology on, but have failed to break into the mainstream.
Now Nintendo is bringing out a special range of its cardboard Labo kits.
Newsbeat's gaming reporter Steffan Powell has been to find out how it's different to the other VR headsets already on the market.
Video producer: Woody Morris Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube.
Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here
Video A new filtering system installed at London Marylebone train station is trying to tackle the problem of air pollution.
Using a nano-carbon filter the device is capable of removing over 90% of harmful gases from the environment.
BBC Click finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video A system which uses a combination of artificial intelligence (AI) and high resolution fixed cameras could change the way some sports like basketball are covered.
Developed by Playsight the system can track players, the ball and events like passes and three-point field goals.
Coaches and officials can also replay game footage on court.
The system is currently being tested by the British Basketball League.
BBC Click finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Image copyright Twitter Image caption It's like a really weird game of Guess Who?
Have you heard the one about the sheep so big the CEO of Tesla made it his profile picture?
Elon Musk first tweeted the picture as a joke, but then went a step further by replacing his Twitter avatar with the image of the farmyard animal.
This did not sit right with the sheep photo's owners, the Museum of English Rural Life, which soon made a change of its own.
Now visitors to its Twitter page will be greeted with Musk's smiling face.
Image copyright @TheMERL Musk is known for participating in running jokes and slang online, such as previously asking Twitter users for their "dankest memes" and releasing a rap song about Harambe, the gorilla shot dead in a US zoo who then became a social media touchstone.
And he has been enjoying his time as a sheep by replying to genuine Tesla car customers with oblique sheep puns to thank them for their purchases.
Likewise, the Museum of English Rural Life regularly joins in with internet humour, and has used its time as Musk to tweet jokes about "electric sheep called Teslewe".
Adam Koszary, Programme Manager and Digital Lead for Museums Partnership Reading, is the man behind the museum on Twitter.
"The end-game for our whole Twitter," he told the BBC, "is engaging people with English rural life, even if that means memes.
"We'll change our picture back either when Elon changes his back, or at the point where people are confused enough to show up to Elon Musk's house expecting it to be the Museum of English Rural Life."
The original sheep picture originates from the museum's archives, where it is described as a 1962 photo of an Exmoor Horn aged ram, taken in Devon.
It caught the attention of the internet in April 2018 when the museum, which is part of the University of Reading, shared the picture online alongside the caption "look at this absolute unit".
The phrase "absolute unit" is internet jargon, meaning a large, muscular person or thing.
It is regularly used as a compliment - for example, it has been used thousands of times online to describe both a shockingly muscular kangaroo and a giant steer who each made the news in 2018.
With regards to the ram, Dr Ollie Douglas, Curator of the Museum of English Rural Life Collections, revealed the secret behind its size.
"The breed was intended for meat and wool production," he wrote in a blog post.
"In other words, it was the full package, or as our social media folks put it, 'an absolute unit'."
Skip Twitter post 2 by @TheMERL Weve been doing some archive detective work on our absolute unit.
First off, we have shelves of units.
So many they need their own key, and there is one called Black Welsh Mountain.
Let that sink in.
(We found our boi on this tasteful salmon pink card) pic.twitter.com/DMj64LET9b The Museum of English Rural Life (@TheMERL) April 10, 2018 Report The museum has built itself a bit of a reputation for funny business online.
In January 2019 it started a war with fellow museums over who has the best duck in its archives, and in October 2018 it may have spawned a new JK Rowling character with a tweet about a chicken in trousers.
And in February 2019, meanwhile, the tweets in its thread of updates about a lost bat in its rare book store were liked more than 25,000 times.
The bat became so popular online that it was even awarded its own university library card.
Image copyright Eric Butts/Lucasfilm Image caption Eric Butts is a 40-year-old YouTuber from Lexington, Kentucky "I intentionally put crying trailers on the internet.
I have to have a thick skin."
Eric Butts is what you might call a "reaction YouTuber".
He makes videos where he watches trailers and reacts, whether that's with laughter, bemusement or even tears.
So as far as he was concerned, a recent video where he cried while watching the new Star Wars Episode IX teaser trailer was not unusual.
The internet disagreed.
"It started blowing up in a very negative way," Eric told the BBC.
"I was getting very horrible stuff sent to me."
As social media became saturated with hate-filled tweets and his video was viewed more than 6.8 million times on Twitter - at the time of writing - it seemed there would be no end to people mocking him for his reaction.
That is until his video caught the eye of Mark Hamill, the actor who played Luke Skywalker, who tweeted his support.
Eric told the BBC that "with a name like Eric Butts" he was used to getting insulted online.
"It wasn't really getting to me," he said.
"When it all started, before Mark Hamill got involved, I was on holiday for my 40th birthday with my fiancee.
"It's hard to get upset with an ocean front and a private pool."
On return from his holiday, Eric was still receiving negative comments, but was happy that he was getting money from the ad revenue on YouTube.
"So I was thinking, hey, I'm making a few extra bucks and I can buy a video game," he told the BBC.
A prominent Twitter commenter suggested it made them want to "cringe to death".
Another called Eric part of "a whole new population of undateable men".
Image copyright Twitter This was when things took another turn for the worse.
"There was some really horrible stuff," Eric said.
"They took my reaction video and changed it so they had me react to other things.
"Some of it was funny but there was some horrible stuff, anti-Semitism like Holocaust footage, racial stuff, people really trying to bully."
Eric said this was the lowest point, but also what sparked the highest point - a second reaction from Hamill.
"The next day things legitimately got to me," he said, "but in the best of ways.
"Mark Hamill was defending what I was doing."
Skip Twitter post 2 by @HamillHimself Hi Eric- Thanks for sharing your amazing reaction to the trailer.
It was inspiring to see you transported with joy in anticipation of IX.
Makes what we do seem all the more worthwhile.
All the best, Mar PS: I salute you, sir: pic.twitter.com/7xOEVm3iju Mark Hamill (@HamillHimself) April 16, 2019 Report Eric explained that the Star Wars actor's involvement started a shockwave of positive feedback.
"I was getting this outpouring of support," he said, "far outweighing the trolls."
The support came from all angles online, whether it be Star Wars fans, fellow YouTubers or self-proclaimed "proud geekazoids".
And game designer Cory Barlog tweeted his support, even changing his Twitter name to #undateable in reference to a critical tweet.
Image copyright Twitter Suddenly Eric was receiving support from film-makers themselves, with Zootopia and Moana writer Jared Bush saying that his enthusiasm for films "means the world".
It culminated in Star Wars Rogue One writer Gary Whitta revealing that he was a closet fan of the YouTuber - even slyly starting the tongue-in-cheek hashtag #ILoveButts.
Image copyright Twitter Image caption Gary Whitta's tweet minus a slightly sweary turn of phrase But it was the tweet from Hamill that meant the most to Eric.
"When Mark Hamill tweeted me," he said, "my hands started shaking.
"Star Wars has been such a huge deal in my life from my childhood onwards.
"I joked that I started crying again, but I did.
The character he portrayed was such an influence on me."
And Eric had a smart response to the "undateable" tag too - posting a photo to his social media followers of his fiance's hand littered with five different engagement rings.
Image copyright Christie's Image caption This portrait was created by computer, so is it really art and is it any good?
Last year a portrait of Edmond Belamy sold for $432,000 (337,000).
A bit steep, you might think, for a picture of someone you've never heard of.
And you won't have heard of the artist either, as the picture was created by an algorithm drawing on a data set of 15,000 portraits painted between the 14th and 20th Centuries.
And to be honest, it's a bit rubbish.
The sale, which astonished auction house Christie's, raised many important questions.
Can a computer, devoid of human emotion, ever be truly creative?
Is this portrait really art?
Does any of that matter if people are prepared to pay for it?
And as artificial intelligence evolves and eventually perhaps reaches or surpasses human level intelligence, what will this mean for human artists and the creative industries in general?
Algorithms have already created artworks, poems, and pieces of music, but are they merely mimicking rather than creating?
Cognitive neuroscientist Romy Lorenz says a lot depends on how we define creativity.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Chinese Go player Ke Jie was eventually defeated by DeepMind's AlphaGo AI program If creativity means finding completely new ways to solve problems, then AI has already achieved that, she argues, citing Google's DeepMind subsidiary.
In 2017, one of DeepMind's AI programmes beat the world's number one player of Go, an ancient and highly complex Chinese board game, after apparently mastering creative new moves and innovative strategies within days.
"Google would say that was creativity - new ways of finding solutions that it was not taught," she says.
But is art more than just creative problem-solving?
More Technology of Business Games, particularly those which take place within virtual worlds, have been the perfect setting for AI to solve problems creatively.
But asking an algorithm to create without any human input at all actually yields quite boring results, argues New York-based professor of computer science, Julian Togelius.
He cites Kate Compton's "10,000 bowls of oatmeal" problem, which suggests that while algorithms can now create infinite worlds, these can be tedious for humans to play in.
An example, he suggests, was the hotly-anticipated release of space exploration game No Man's Sky, which offered 18 quintillion algorithmically-generated planets to explore.
Image copyright Hello Games Image caption No Man's Sky uses "procedural generation" to create new worlds automatically "In No Man's Sky there are more places you could visit in a lifetime, with different flora and fauna.
But that game has had mixed reviews - it's a technical masterpiece but it's not super interesting to play," he says.
"The question is, can your algorithm generate a world that has meaning to it, and that is particular to the player in terms of place or skill?
"These algorithms are amazing - they can do more and more.
But there will always be things us humans want to put in.
It's the power of the sensibility and intentionality of the human brain - that's what is hard [to recreate]."
Dr Lorenz points out that true artistic creativity differs from creative problem solving in that it requires a shift in perspective that machines do not appear to have the capacity for.
Image copyright Romy Lorenz Image caption Romy Lorenz says AI has no "internal world" from which to create true art "Artistic creativity is about turning an introspective thought into a medium, whether it's a sculpture or a piece of music.
It's about taking an abstract form and making it concrete.
"But AI has no internal world and it has no need to create its desires or fears."
So rather than letting AI take complete control, results seem to be far more fruitful when human artists work hand-in-hand with machines.
Musician and University of Sussex lecturer Dr Alice Eldridge suggests that we should treat AI as "just another tool that we have designed, like the wheel, or the combustion engine".
Image copyright Dr Alice Eldridge Image caption Dr Alice Eldridge (l) and Dr Chris Kiefer (r) play their self-resonating feedback cellos She has helped create a cello that uses a combination of acoustics, electrification and an adaptive algorithm that makes the instrument self-resonate; or essentially, play itself.
"With a classical cello you have to bring the instrument alive with a bow; a feedback cello is already singing, your job as a performer is to shape the sound - it's more like a dance than 'controlling' an instrument in the traditional way," she says.
"This creates a different way of thinking about, and designing our relationships with, musical instruments, and technology in general."
Mick Grierson, at the UAL Creative Computing Institute in London, believes advances in AI will "lead to better art, new types of artists and new mediums".
In 2016, Nordic band Sigur Rs used his software to create a constantly evolving version of one of their singles, which the band played on a 24-hour road trip around Iceland.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The band Massive Attack have been experimenting with AI to create unique pieces of art Individual musical elements of the song were fed through the software to make a song that, like a live performance, is subtly different with every repetition, and could respond to external prompts.
Innovative composer and producer Brian Eno, who has worked with Roxy Music, David Bowie and Coldplay amongst others, is also a big fan of using algorithms to create music that constantly changes.
Prof Grierson has also worked with Massive Attack on an AI reworking of their Mezzanine album, to mark its 20th anniversary.
The album will be fed into a form of AI that teaches itself - a neural network - and visitors to an upcoming Barbican exhibition will be able to affect the resulting sound by their movements.
While AI could be seen as yet another threat to artists' livelihoods, he believes machines will never come close to competing.
"AI could be used to reduce human creativity by people who want to make money - but it's people [not technology] who are responsible for doing that.
"The technology is never going to be good enough to generate better culture than people who use it to create their own."
Follow Technology of Business editor Matthew Wall on Twitter and Facebooko
Video BBC Click's Jen Copestake looks at some of the week's best technology stories including: Tech giants Apple and Qualcomm agree to settle all ongoing lawsuits, putting an end to a long-running battle Sony releases the first details about its next PlayStation console Boston Dynamics show off their robot dogs that can pull a lorry across a car park See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Image copyright Iain Taylor Image caption "Payment can be as little as 4 plus the cost to cover the product they are selling," Iain says "I've learned never to rely on reviews for anything," says Iain Taylor, from East Sussex.
In his spare time and to supplement his income, the 44-year-old says he writes fake reviews online in exchange for money and free products.
"I have written reviews from numbing creams to eBooks to downloadable independent films," he says.
"I think it's bad - but I think everyone's doing it," says Mr Taylor, describing himself as "cynical".
"Since I started doing it I tell my family and friends not to trust reviews.
"If you are going to buy something you should do more research than look at a couple of five-star reviews on Amazon."
He says writers are paid to buy the product and then leave a review, meaning the review can be verified.
'Too focused on statistics' Another person, a woman who preferred to remain anonymous, writes fake online reviews of the restaurant where she works - a chain pub in Nottingham.
"I feel like there's significant pressure to get positive reviews on either Facebook, Google or TripAdvisor," she says.
"The manager has actually told us to ask customers to do the review in front of us after their meals which I find hilarious.
"Anyway, I feel like it gets the managers off my back about it if I write a few for myself here and there.
I do get a few genuine ones but a few more won't hurt, eh?"
She adds: "I think it does make me look like a better employee, obviously."
Image copyright Getty Images The murky world of fake online reviews hit headlines again on Tuesday, after consumer group Which?
claimed that Amazon's website is flooded with fake five-star reviews for products from unfamiliar brands.
Amazon said it was using automated technology to weed out false reviews and that it had invested "significant resources" to protect its review system "because we know customers value the insights and experiences shared by fellow shoppers".
"Even one inauthentic review is one too many," it added.
Online reviews are valuable to businesses.
The government's Competition and Markets Authority has estimated that such reviews potentially influence a mammoth 23bn of UK customer spending every year.
'You can't win' One company, in Bingley, West Yorkshire, has decided not to use review websites because of the risk of competing with fake reviews.
Helena Gerwitz, head of marketing at Feature Radiators, says: "We work in a really niche industry.
"When new websites pop up, they might suddenly have 200 or so reviews.
That's a lot of reviews since we know they have only been going since last month."
Image copyright FeatureRadiators Image caption Helena Gerwitz, front second from left, says her company gets "lovely" feedback which it posts on its website She believes the volume of the high-rated reviews that some competitors have cannot be legitimate.
Ms Gerwitz adds: "We have had chats about it - do we need to go down this route?
- but my boss is very much 'we don't want to do that'.
It's unethical, it's not true.
"We could set up a review account and know that we would do it legitimately but it would look bad as we wouldn't pay people to put out reviews, so relative to the other sites we would look terrible.
"So we have decided not to do them but then people think there is something to hide.
You can't win.
It's really frustrating."
'Lose faith in online shopping' Even verified reviews might not be all they seem.
Some consumers fear their personal data might have been used by sellers to gather fake "verified reviews".
Known as "brushing", the scam sees sellers obtain people's name and address to send the goods which they did not purchase.
On Amazon, this leaves a paper trail showing the goods had been bought on the site and had been delivered.
The seller then uses the individual's details to set up a new account which it uses to post glowing reviews of its products.
Amazon says it is "investigating" complaints of "unsolicited packages" which would breach the company's policy.
Architect Paul Bailey, from Billericay, in Essex believes he may have been targeted.
Last month he received a number of unexpected "gifts", including a key-ring, a phone case, a tattoo removal kit and a charcoal toothpaste set.
Image copyright Paul Bailey Image caption Some of the parcels which were sent to Mr Bailey included a USB mobile fan and a tattoo removal kit "I think when the first parcel arrived it was a case of bemusement, then I checked with my wife if she'd used my account to buy something.
"When the second item arrived later that day I thought it was perplexing but amusing.
Then it became quite chilling."
Mr Bailey says he cannot be sure where online sellers have obtained his data but says it has "made me lose faith in online shopping."
He added: "We all know there are laws in place over how data is handled but it's made me very, very nervous to the point I'm going shopping back on the High Street - even though it tends to be more expensive."
A spokesman for Amazon added: "We have confirmed the sellers involved did not receive names or shipping addresses from Amazon.
"We remove sellers in violation of our policies, withhold payments, and work with law enforcement to take appropriate action."
Is posting fake reviews illegal?
Trading practices in the UK are covered under the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008.
Under this legislation, a trader commits an offence if they "engage in a commercial practice which is a misleading action" which cause the average consumer to buy something they would not have otherwise.
These actions include "the nature of the sales process" but do not specifically refer to reviews.
Trading watchdog, the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), took its first action against a company for posting fake reviews in 2016.
It ordered marketing company Total SEO to remove more than 800 fake reviews which were posted for 86 small businesses on 26 different websites between 2014 and 2015.
It warned those who write or arrange fake reviews risk acting unlawfully.
Titilope Omitogun, 24, from south London, is another person to have been targeted by online review scammers.
One morning last month, she woke up to approximately 50 emails from Amazon saying "thanks for your review".
She had not posted one.
The posts, which had been made on a range of items including a telescope and screen protectors, all gave the maximum five-star rating.
"They were quite realistic so I think it was a real person doing it and not a robot," she said.
After contacting Amazon, the company told her it believed her account had been hacked.
Her password was changed and she has had no such problems since.
Image copyright Titilope Omitogun Image caption Miss Omitogun complained to Amazon on Twitter that "someone is using my account to write fake reviews" The psychology of online reviews Nathalie Nahai, the author of Webs of Influence: The Psychology of Online Persuasion, says online reviews work because people try to take an "effortless route" when they have to make decisions.
"When it comes to purchasing, especially for items which are easy to buy, we expect this level of convenience and ease," she says.
"Part of that expectation is met by peer reviews we can outsource our decision-making."
"Above a certain threshold, people will go for a slightly lower rating," Ms Nahai explains, citing a study where a product with more reviews but a 4.3 rating was more popular than the same product with fewer reviews and a 4.4.
Interestingly, she says there is "a certain leniency we give to bad reviews".
"We tend to distrust perfect ratings because it looks too good to be true," she says.
"A five-star rating is less worthy than a 4.8 or 4.7."
It could also be the order of the reviews that matters.
Consumer psychologist Cathrine Jansson-Boyd says some sellers might be aware of what is known as the primacy and recency effects.
These theories state that people tend to remember the first and last items in a series better than those in the middle.
"It's the first five or six reviews that people tend to read and then if they're really interested they'll scroll to the last one.
"So some sellers will make sure it's really good reviews at the top and that people see a really good one last."
There are, however, many reasons why people will also post genuine online reviews, says Nisa Bayindir, director of global insights at market research company GlobalWebIndex.
"There are other key motivations at play.
For example, we know that consumers buy products and brands that preserve, enhance or extend their self image.
"This dynamic comes alive with online reviews.
People may leave genuine and positive reviews online to show appreciation and commitment to the brands that are in tune with their personalities and values.
"This of course includes the basics such as product quality, attentive customer services and good value for money. "
She says that brands should focus on "building credibility" but acknowledges that fake reviews may be around for cheaper goods for the foreseeable future.
She adds: "Sometimes people are just happy to pay a smaller amount of money for a mediocre experience."
Image copyright Alamy On 5 October 1744, a storm was brewing in the English Channel.
With sails set for home after chasing a French fleet off the coast of Portugal, a squadron of British warships was in trouble.
The lead ship HMS Victory sank 100m to the seabed 50 miles (80km) south of Plymouth, taking with it 1,100 men and - so rumour had it - lots of Portuguese gold.
The wreckage lay undisturbed until it was located by a marine salvage company in 2009.
Beyond the rumoured gold, there was something else on board which was arguably much more economically significant.
Also lost that day was the first known attempt to develop an idea that is now used to guide everything from submarines to satellites, from rovers on Mars to the phone in your pocket.
When the Victory went down, it took with it John Serson's "whirling speculum", forerunner to the gyroscope.
Find out more: 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations that helped create the economic world.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen to all the episodes online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Serson was a sea captain, and barely literate.
But he was also an "ingenious mechanick", as The Gentleman's Magazine later put it.
He was trying to solve a serious problem.
Sailors worked out a ship's position by using a quadrant to take an angle from the sun to the horizon, but you could not always see the horizon, because of haze or mist.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Quadrants have been used for marine navigation since the 15th Century Inspired by a child's spinning top toy, Serson wondered if he could create an artificial horizon - something that would stay level, even as a ship lurched and swayed around it.
As The Gentleman's Magazine recounts, he "got a kind of top made, whose upper surface perpendicular to the axe was a circular plane of polish'd metal; and found, as he had expected, that when this top was briskly set in motion, its plane surface would soon become horizontal.
If the whirling plane were disturbed from its horizontal position, it would soon recover it again".
After impressing two high-ranking naval officers and an eminent mathematician, Serson was asked to make further observations aboard the HMS Victory: "and so perish'd poor Mr Serson".
His widow, Sarah Serson, was left penniless and asked the Navy for copies of his documents so she could try to make money from the speculum, although there seems to be no evidence that she succeeded.
However, a century later, French physicist Leon Foucault would produce a successful prototype based on the same principle which had fascinated Serson.
Image copyright Getty Images Foucault called his device a "gyroscope", from the Greek words for "turn" and "observe", because he used it to study the Earth's rotation.
It was a spinning disc mounted in gimbals, a set of pivoted supports that allow the disc to maintain its orientation regardless of how the base might be tilting around.
Then electric motors came along, meaning the disc could spin indefinitely.
And practical applications came thick and fast.
Ships got workable artificial horizons and so did aeroplanes.
In the early 1900s, two inventors figured out how to align the spin to the Earth's north-south axis, giving us the gyrocompass.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The gyrocompass was widely hailed as a modern wonder, shown here on a cigarette card.
Combine these instruments with others - accelerometers, magnetometers - and you get a good idea of which way up you are and in which direction you are heading.
Feed these outputs into systems that can course-correct, and you have an aeroplane's autopilot, a ship's gyro-stabilizer, and navigation systems on spacecraft or missiles.
Add in GPS, and you know where you are.
There is a limit to how small you can make spinning discs in gimbals, but other technological developments have miniaturised the gyroscope.
Vibrating micro-electro-mechanical gyroscopes measure only a few cubic millimetres.
Researchers are making a laser-based gyroscope thinner than a human hair.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The first GPS watch was produced by Casio 20 years ago in 1999 As these and other sensors have got smaller and cheaper - and computers faster, and batteries lighter - they have found uses from smartphones to robots, gaming consoles and virtual reality headsets.
And another technology around which there is a particular buzz: the drone.
The first pilotless flight is often traced to 1849 - only three years before Foucault's gyroscope.
Austria tried to attack Venice by fixing bombs to balloons and waiting for the wind to blow in the right direction.
It was not a triumph: some bombs landed in Austrian territory.
But military uses continued to drive drone technology.
If you searched for "drones" in a news archive, until about four or five years ago, you would find that the top stories were about war.
Then suddenly they started being about "what do airspace regulations mean for hobbyists?
", and "how long before drones are delivering our groceries?".
More things that made the modern economy: That is a big question.
Drones are now commonplace from surveying to moviemaking; they get urgent medical supplies to hard-to-reach places.
But it is the routine, everyday uses that promise to be truly transformative: flying our online shopping to us, or even flying us - the Chinese company Ehang is pioneering drones that can carry human passengers.
In rural China, delivery drones are starting to look like a leapfrog technology: one that catches on most quickly where there is not a competing established infrastructure - in this case, of big-box retail stores and roads for van deliveries.
Zhangwei, for example, is a village in Jiangsu province where few people own cars, and only half have fridges, but everyone has a phone - and they use those mobiles to place orders at online retailer JD.com for everything from disposable nappies to fresh crabs.
Image copyright JD.com Image caption JD.com has been using drones like this one shown landing in Jiangsu Province since 2016 As Jiayang Fan describes in the New Yorker, about four times a day, warehouse workers dispatch the village's orders on a drone that carries up to 30lb at 45 miles per hour.
Everyone is happy - except for Big Auntie, the woman who runs the village shop.
If drones are to take off more widely, we will need better solutions to the so-called "last mile" problem.
In Zhangwei, JD.com employs a human to distribute the crabs and the nappies to the villagers who ordered them - but in countries where labour is pricier, the last miles are where delivery costs are concentrated; automate it, and some believe bricks-and-mortar stores could cease to exist altogether.
But nobody is sure precisely how that might work.
Image copyright Amazon Image caption Amazon and Google are both trialling large-scale drone delivery services Do we want our online purchases parachuted into our back gardens, or plunked on the roofs of our apartment buildings?
How about smart windows that can open to let in drones when we are not at home?
Are more stringent no-fly zones needed to avoid the kind of disruption recently caused at Gatwick and Heathrow when drone sightings delayed hundreds of flights?
Then there is another problem - the one that did for poor John Serson: the weather.
If we are going to rely on airborne deliveries, they will have to work in all conditions.
Will drones ever navigate storms that could sink a battleship?
Perhaps then the promise of the gyroscope will have truly been fulfilled.
The author writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen to all the episodes online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Is education and negotiation more effective than technology at policing your kids' digital usage?
As concerns grow about the effect of harmful social media content on our children, we look at what tools are available for parents to regulate what kids see and how long they spend online.
The struggle to prise them away from a life spent online is a familiar one for many beleaguered parents.
Our youngsters spend hours on Instagram chasing "likes" - and often coming up against cyber-bullying - or playing games, obsessing about YouTube influencers or surfing between different "friendship groups" on WhatsApp.
So how can we keep them safe from harmful content?
Content filtering software has been around for many years, but parents have often been too tech-shy to work it properly.
And it often required children to hand over their passwords - a potential cause of family rows.
But now a new generation of digital parental controls has arrived on the market, promising to help parents take back control more easily.
Circle with Disney, Koala Safe and Ikydz, for example, are systems that claim to be able to control every digital device in your home with a few taps on a smartphone app.
Image copyright Circle with Disney Image caption Circle with Disney's cube is designed to be easy to use, but is it really necessary?
The new products work by connecting to your existing household wi-fi router.
In the case of Circle you plug in the white cube - clearly inspired by the Apple school of design - and it immediately lists every connected phone, laptop, tablet, and so on in your home, and offers a variety of ways to control them.
It can be tricky to work out who owns which device.
Initially I block my husband's phone by mistake - to howls of outrage.
But once I identify each device's MAC address - a set of numbers and letters unique to each product - it is relatively easy to assign each gadget to a specific user.
Then you can set filters based on age - pre-school, kid, teen, adult or none - which block explicit content, gambling, dating and more, according to the filter selected.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Ian Russell partly blames Instagram for his daughter taking her own life and says "the urgency is huge" to protect children online You can also block specific apps or websites - Fortnite and Instagram anyone?
And you can put time limits on usage, pause the internet, and set bed times.
But you could do most of this with traditional filtering software, and these days internet service providers, cyber-security software firms and web browsers are all much better at offering family settings on their services.
What's more, the same issues arise.
My two daughters, aged 11 and 13, loudly protest about "violations of privacy" when they realised I could see every site and app they've visited.
Once I've reassured them that this is not about snooping, but more about limitation and safety, they grudgingly seem to accept the new controls.
Indeed, a 2018 survey of young people between the ages of 11 and 16 by Internet Matters, an online safety not-for-profit organisation, showed that 65% were in favour of parental controls.
Image copyright Phil Coomes Image caption Laurel and and her daughters.
Content filtering tech is useful, but so is education and discussion when it comes to the web Anne Longfield, the Children's Commissioner for England, thinks it is good parenting to set limits.
"The internet can be a great resource, but it can also be the wild west for children.
We wouldn't think it was OK to drop our children off in the park at night if they were younger," she says.
"In the same way we shouldn't think it is OK for them to roam the internet without any guidance or restrictions."
There are disadvantages with these latest filtering devices, though.
Some don't work once your child's phone leaves the home and is no longer on home wi-fi.
And they won't all work if the wi-fi is switched off and the internet is accessed via mobile data.
Other products are also incompatible with some UK routers.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Nicole and Tali became friends through Instagram So what other options are there?
More Technology of Business "For younger children a Monqi phone [Monqi make phones designed specifically for kids] might be a better option as a first device," advises Ghislaine Bombusa, head of digital at Internet Matters.
"Or if you're worried about particular websites you can set safe search on your family's broadband; that may be sufficient and is free.
You can also set up Google Safe Search or restricted mode on YouTube."
Another option is buying one of the new generation of high-speed routers, some of which not only deliver good coverage but also have parental control options pre-installed.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Do you know what your kids are looking at online?
And for parents with more tech expertise, Kate Bevan, editor of Which?
Computing, recommends setting up Open DNS up on your router, which enables parents to put controls in place.
The basic blocking options are free.
But Ben Halpert, who set up the US based Savvy Cyber Kids, warns that there are limits to what technology alone can achieve.
"Once children reach a certain age, their peers will tell them, or they will stumble upon ways to get around parental controls," he says.
"No matter what technology you put in place, it will never prevent your child from being exposed to things you wish they did not experience.
This is why building trust with your children and continuing to talk about technology use is so important."
Most experts stress that discussion, education and negotiation are just as important as technical fixes when it comes to keeping your kids safe online.
Follow Technology of Business editor Matthew Wall on Twitter and Facebook
Image copyright Grace Bristo (Amelia)/Publicity handouts Image caption L-R: Amelia Dimoldenberg, Kojo Anim, Yomi Sontan Social media is now the go-to platform to showcase everything we do, and comedians have been quick to use it to promote their work.
Whether it's with pranks, sketches or jokes, making your audience laugh is one of the easiest ways to go viral.
But can traditional stand-up comedy survive in the new comedy climate?
There are several pitfalls comedians can fall into, in the online era, as the BBC's comedy controller Shane Allen pointed out last week.
"For social media you can have three tweets will lead to a storm... there's people who are a lot more willing to take offence easily because they'll take material out of context," he told BBC News.
"People sometimes confuse the subject of a joke with the target of a joke.
So anything around race or sex is accused of being racist or sexist, so a handful of comments and opinions can quickly become quite a storm and damaging so I would like the comedy community to be able to represent ourselves a bit more."
Allen added he actively advises comedians to stay off Twitter once a TV show has been commissioned, to avoid the likelihood of being caught up in any scandals.
'Great opportunity' But while there are plenty of potential pitfalls, there are also plenty of benefits to comedians being on Twitter.
Many use it as their main platform to build a profile.
Amelia Dimoldenberg, also known as "the girl from the chicken shop", set up a spoof dating show where she interviews grime artists and influencers in fried chicken shops across London.
Through social media, she built up traction and meme accounts, such as YoungKingsTV, Warmzn and ImJustBait, helped by advertising short versions of her YouTube videos on their pages.
But Amelia, who has over 160,000 subscribers on her YouTube channel, doesn't believe that traditional live stand-up comedy is obsolete just yet.
She tells BBC News: "I think that the online world of comedy has just created a different way to consume it rather than replacing traditional set-ups.
"I do think that if you want to be hyper successful in today's landscape you must master them both."
Amelia uses Mo Gilligan, also known as Mo The Comedian, as an example.
Gilligan co-hosts Channel 4's The Big Narstie Show and tours regularly, but also has countless viral social media videos, and has sold out tours across the country with his a Coupla Cans comedy nights.
He started out by uploading clips while still working in a clothes store in London (customers even began to recognise him).
According to Amelia, digital platforms have birthed a new area for comedy to be displayed, which should be welcomed.
Yomi Sontan, known online as Yoms TV, uses Instagram as his main platform to showcase his comedy.
He has more than 130,000 followers and generally accumulates around 60,000 views per post.
He believes the respect for traditional comedy, such as stand up in the UK, is declining.
Speaking about TV comedy programmes, he said: "We see the same old shows like Mock The Week and Live at the Apollo.
"The way audiences watch comedy has evolved, there's no longer a set time on TV, they can watch it when they want through tablets and other devices."
Comedian Kojo landed the coveted golden buzzer from Simon Cowell on Britain's Got Talent earlier this month.
He's also travelled all around Europe and Africa with his stand-up comedy.
He has also introduced London's first black comedy club, Da Comedy Fun House, which has been graced by the likes of US comedy heavyweights Dave Chapelle and Kevin Hart.
According to Kojo, social media is a great way to build up a following, but he adds that stand-up comedians should be worried about the rise of the online comedian.
"Unlike music or a movie, you only laugh at the joke once and it gets lighter and lighter and lighter till it's not funny anymore," he explains.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Dave Chapelle is among the stars who have performed at Da Comedy Fun House Kojo adds comedy audiences on social media and at live gigs are after very different things.
"It's all 90 seconds long online, whereas with live stand up there's a bit more story telling," he says.
"It's more slow place with a genuine interaction - it's very easy to re-shoot it for social media.
But when it's live it either works or it doesn't."
Aaron Brown, the owner and editor of the British Comedy Guide says social media "offers comedians a great opportunity for wide exposure".
"It's a chance to find and grow a fan-base potentially very quickly, as well as for promotion and where fans can see them, whether that's a stand-up tour, an existing DVD release, a TV appearance, a podcast or any one of a number of other activities."
He adds it offers fans a great opportunity to re-promote comics' material, with organic recommendations and benefits.
New and upcoming comics can use social media as a tool to find work, as well as sharing stories and boosting their morale chatting with colleagues.
There are certainly risks, as Allen argued last week, that given the immediacy of the platform, comedians find themselves at increased risk of being at the centre of a scandal.
But while it's a tricky minefield for the industry, it's one from which huge rewards can be reaped if used carefully and wisely.
Follow us on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, on Instagram at bbcnewsents, or email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption There is a wrong and right way to carry out workplace surveillance Is workplace surveillance about improving productivity or simply a way to control staff and weed out poor performers?
Courtney Hagen Ford, 34, left her job working as a bank teller because she found the surveillance she was under was "dehumanising".
Her employer logged her keystrokes and used software to monitor how many of the customers she helped went on to take out loans and fee-paying accounts.
"The sales pressure was relentless," she recalls.
"The totality was horrible."
She decided selling fast food would be better, but ironically, left the bank to do a doctorate in surveillance technology.
Courtney is not alone in her dislike of this kind of surveillance, but it's on the rise around the world as firms look to squeeze more productivity from their workers and become more efficient.
Image copyright Courtney Hagen Ford Image caption Courtney Hagen Ford says having her every move monitored was "dehumanising" More than half of companies with over $750m (574m) in annual revenue used "non-traditional" monitoring techniques on staff last year, says Brian Kropp, vice-president of research firm Gartner.
These include tools to analyse e-mails, conversations, computer usage, and employee movements around the office.
Some firms are also monitoring heart rates and sleep patterns to see how these affect performance.
In 2015, 30% used such tools.
Next year, Mr Kropp expects 80% will.
And workforce analytics will be a $1.87bn industry by 2025, says San Francisco's Grand Review Research.
So why is business so keen?
Ben Waber, chief executive of Humanyze, a Boston workplace analytics company, says it gives firms the ability to assess how their staff are performing and interacting, which can be good for the firm but also good for employees themselves.
Image copyright Robin Lubbock Image caption Humanyze's Ben Waber thinks firms need to find our more about how they function His company gathers "data exhaust" left by employees' email and instant messaging apps, and uses name badges equipped with radio-frequency identification (RFID) devices and microphones.
These can check how much time you spend talking, your volume and tone of voice, even if you dominate conversations.
While this may sound intrusive - not to say creepy - proponents argue that it can also protect employees against bullying and sexual harassment.
Humanyze calls these badges "Fitbit for your career".
Some of this data analysis can produce unexpected results, says Mr Waber.
For example, one large tech client discovered that coders who sat at 12-person lunch tables tended to outperform those who regularly sat at four-person tables.
The larger tables led to more interaction with staff from other parts of the company, he says, and this improved idea sharing.
Larger lunch tables were "driving more than a 10% difference in performances".
A fact that would probably have gone undetected without such data analysis.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The chip allows employees to open doors and use the photocopier without a traditional pass card Over the last few years a Stockholm co-working space called Epicenter has gone much further and holds popular "chipping parties", where people can have RFID-enabled rice-sized microchips implanted in their hands.
They can use the implants to access electronically controlled doors, swap contacts, or monitor how typing speed correlates with heart rate, says Epicenter's Hannes Sjblad, who has an implant himself.
The implant "cannot transmit any data unless you put it within a centimetre of a reader, so the person with the implant controls when it can be read", he says.
Embedded chips may seem extreme, but it is a relatively small step from ID cards and biometrics to such devices, says Prof Jeffrey Stanton, a University of Syracuse academic who researches work-related stress.
As long as such schemes are voluntary, "there will probably be a growing number of convenience-oriented uses such that a substantial number of workers would opt to have a chip implanted", he believes.
But if embedded chips are used to reduce slack time or rest breaks, "we are probably in the bad zone", he says.
And if surveillance tools "take away autonomy", that's when they prove most unpopular.
Image copyright Gartner Image caption Gartner's Brian Kropp says bad communication can scupper monitoring projects A lot depends on how such monitoring initiatives are communicated, Gartner's Mr Kropp argues.
In 2016, Britain's Telegraph newspaper installed heat and motion monitoring devices under employees' desks.
While management said it was to find out which desks were occupied for energy management purposes, staff thought they were being spied on and staged a revolt.
The devices were removed after 24 hours.
If bosses don't communicate effectively, employees assume the worst, Mr Kropp says.
But if they're open about the information they're collecting - and what they're doing with it - 46% of employees are "generally okay with it".
Although many such monitoring schemes use anonymised data and participation is voluntary, many staff remain sceptical and fear an erosion of their civil liberties.
In less liberal countries, workers are not given any choice at all.
But for some, the benefits are obvious.
Image copyright Jessica Johnson Image caption Jessica Johnson says her workplace tracking software helps her cope with narcolepsy "I've got a condition called narcolepsy," explains Jessica Johnson, 34, from Canberra, Australia.
She falls asleep for short periods during the day, then is disorientated when she wakes.
This "impacts my memory, my ability to focus and concentrate," she says.
She worked with an insurance company where employees used a programme called Timely to track billable hours.
It helped her quickly find what she had been doing before she fell asleep, and pick up where she left off.
"You install it on your phone, and then on your computer, and that's how you get all the raw data," says Mathias Mikkelsen, Timely's Norwegian chief executive.
More Technology of Business "Machine learning algorithms analyse all the data, and create beautiful charts," he says.
You can then see how much time you're wasting in unproductive meetings, say, or replying to e-mails.
You could show managers you were "spending so much time on stuff that's not what you were hired to do," says Mr Mikkelsen.
So workplace surveillance could be empowering for staff and useful for companies looking to become more efficient and profitable.
But implemented in the wrong way, it could also become an unpopular tool of oppression that proves counterproductive.
Follow Technology of Business editor Matthew Wall on Twitter and Facebook
Image copyright @Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption Pikachu has been synonymous with Pokemon since the TV show began in 1997 "It's become my everything."
Micah Yates is a 25-year-old art graduate living in Berea, Kentucky.
She graduated from college in 2016 and set up shop at home.
All of her paintings can be found in an online gallery where she is known as Instagram artist Lunumbra.
And with her paintings sometimes selling for upwards of $300 (230) a piece, you might be surprised to hear that she found her success painting Pokemon cards.
Image copyright Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption Micah takes Pokemon cards and paints over them, using the card itself as the canvas to extend the original artwork.
"I started in 2014 when I was going to school for art," Micah explained.
"I had just gotten into a card game called Magic: The Gathering.
"The painted card community with Magic was thriving.
I was also into Pokemon, so I tried to find the same thing but with Pokemon cards.
Image copyright @Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption "Most of the cards are donated to me.
It's nice to use a card someone has already loved."
"I couldn't find it, so I decided to do it myself.
I painted 10 cards to play around with and posted them on Reddit.
"It went viral overnight.
People were asking me to paint cards for them and paying me, and it hasn't stopped.
Image copyright @Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption Left: One of the first 10 cards Micah painted in 2014.
Right: the same card, painted again in 2018.
"I sell two or three a week.
"They usually go for between $70 and $90, but my Snorlax card went for $300.
I don't know why - I think people just like Snorlax!
"The other big ones were the Umbreon and Espeon pair.
"They combine into one artwork and sold at $400 for both.
I really like that pair - it's hard to make the cards match up like that because the artworks are different."
Image copyright @Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption Micah's reimagining of the cards, bringing together two separate artworks into one combined picture "The artwork on Pokemon cards is unbelievable," she added.
"I always wondered what was behind the square on the Pokemon card.
This is an opportunity to take the border off the artwork and see what's behind it.
Image copyright @Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption "I like to make it interesting but I never want to take away from the original artwork."
"It takes maybe 10 coats of paint that I've thinned down.
"I want them to not have texture.
I want them to look like they were that way forever.
Image copyright @Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption Micah revealed that "shiny" Pokemon cards are completely holographic underneath the text "I was not a painter when I started this, I actually hated painting.
"I went to school to be an illustrator.
I wanted to be an animator.
But this took off, and I'm very thankful."
Image copyright @Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption "When I started painting water I hated it... but now it's one of my favourite things to paint."
If you're interested in how she does it, Micah helpfully shares videos of her method online, with one such video being viewed more than 500,000 times.
"I'm very lucky to have so many supporters that are interested in what I do," she said.
All images copyright as stated
Video A prototype system that can automatically sort recyclable rubbish has been developed by MIT CSAIL.
Using pressure sensors to detect an items size and composition, the RoCycle system can place items in the appropriate recycling bins.
It is hoped the robot could eventually reduce the back-end cost of recycling.
BBC Click finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video BBC Click's Jen Copestake looks at some of the week's best technology stories including: Google shuts down its failed social network Google+ Artificial intelligence will help clear a backlog of marijuana convictions in California Warehouse robots designed to move boxes between pallets is unveiled by Boston Dynamics See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video A robotic arm which can pick up food and feed a person autonomously has been developed by the University of Washington.
The Assistive Dexterous Arm (ADA) uses sensors and algorithms to identify food on a plate and works out the best way to pick it up and also feed it to the person.
Researchers hope it will assist caregivers in feeding fruit and might one day be able to feed realistic meals with further development.
BBC Click finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video Ready Player One tells the story of a society where people escape their daily lives to the virtual reality world of the Oasis.
Hidden somewhere in the Oasis is an Easter egg put there by its creator, which will see the finder inherit his vast fortune.
Al Moloney spoke to Industrial Light and Magic who helped created the visual effects for the film.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video People are returning to a 2014 video game to visit Notre-Dame cathedral before the flames took hold.
It's from the Assassins Creed series, which later spawned a Hollywood film starring Michael Fassbender.
The developer, French firm Ubisoft, has pledged 500,000 (433,000; $565,000) to the reconstruction of the fire-damaged building.
Video Marc Cieslak reviews the game Axiom Soccer - a mashup between football and a third person shooter.
The game has been designed to appeal to the streaming community.
But will it score or be given the red card by gamers?
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video It's a simple job for a human, but surprisingly tricky for a robot.
A company in Japan is trying to teach a pair of machines to bring order to the chaos of child's bedroom, using the same artificial intelligence it uses for self-driving cars and smart factories.
This is part of the BBC's Disruptors series.
You can read the full article here.
Camera: Jiro Akiba; Producer: Ben King; Video editor: Sara Hegarty
Video The world's largest aeroplane by wingspan has taken to the air over the Mojave desert in California.
The aircraft built by Stratolaunch is designed to act as a flying launch pad for satellites.
Its wingspan measures 385ft (117m) and on its maiden flight the jet reached speeds of about 170mph (274km/h).
Video BBC Click's Paul Carter looks at some of the week's best technology stories including: Wikileaks co-founder Julian Assange was arrested by police in London after Ecuador withdrew his asylum.
The first home delivery drone service has been launched in Australia, after years of test flights.
Supermarket giant Walmart is to deploy autonomous machines across thousands of its stores in the US.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
What really happens to 'recycling' plastic?
Many Japanese people who recycle their household plastic would be shocked to know where it ends up.
