If an asteroid hits Earth, our mightiest heroes won't be The Avengers.
It may very well be Elon Musk.
NASA announced Thursday that it had awarded a contract to SpaceX, the space exploration company led by Musk, to help it with asteroid deflection via its Double Asteroid Redirection Test (DART) mission.
The contract, which costs $69 million, will be "the first-ever mission to demonstrate the capability to deflect an asteroid by colliding a spacecraft with it at high speed a technique known as a kinetic impactor," according to a statement from the government space agency.
ANCIENT ASTEROID STRIKES ON MARS MAY HAVE 'PRODUCED KEY INGREDIENTS FOR LIFE' The asteroid that is being targeted is Didymoon, the small space rock that actually orbits the larger Didymos asteroid.
The mission is currently slated for a June 2021 launch on SpaceX's Falcon 9 rocket.
"By using solar electric propulsion, DART will intercept the asteroid Didymos small moon in October 2022, when the asteroid will be within 11 million kilometers of Earth," NASA explained.
Separately, SpaceX on Thursday successfully launched its Falcon Heavy rocket, more than a year after sending up a "red Roadster" in its initial test flight.
Now the world's most powerful operation rocket with 27 engines firing at liftoff, the Falcon Heavy launched into with Arabsat-6A, a Saudi Arabian satellite built by Lockheed Martin and operated by Saudi Arabia.
NASA congratulated SpaceX in a tweet, saying it will "continue to support the growing commercial space economy."
Musk subsequently thanked NASA for the support.
HOW AMERICA CAN GET ITS SLICE OF THE $1 TRILLION SPACE ECONOMY Didymos defense Didymos is garnering significant attention this week as the European Space Agency said it is developing a self-driving craft for its Hera planetary defense mission to the asteroid, which could happen as soon as 2023.
If you think self-driving cars are the future on Earth, then Hera is the pioneer of autonomy in deep space, Paolo Martino, lead systems engineer of ESA's proposed Hera mission, said in a statement.
While the mission is designed to be fully operated manually from the ground, the new technology will be tested once the core mission objectives are achieved and higher risks can be taken.
By giving autonomy to Hera, it should let the spacecraft get as close as 200 meters (656 feet) from the surface of Didymoon, which would let it take observations as close as 2 centimeters per pixel.
Hera, which will only start testing the autonomous system once all of the major objectives are complete, is just a small part of the Asteroid Impact and Deflection Assessment (AIDA) mission, according to Space.com.
IRON VOLCANOES MAY HAVE ERUPTED ON METAL ASTEROIDS, STUDY SAYS The AIDA mission also includes a NASA spacecraft headed to the same asteroid system, where its Double Asteroid Redirection Test (DART) mission is slated to crash into the surface of an asteroid and have two smaller cubesats examine the surface.
Asteroids, disassemble NASA has recently expanded its planetary defense protocols, including last year's unveiling of a bold new plan to protect Earth.
Last June, NASA unveiled a 20-page plan that details steps the U.S. should take to be better prepared for near-Earth objects (NEOs) such as asteroids and comets that come within 30 million miles of the planet.
Lindley Johnson, the space agency's planetary defense officer, said at the time that the country "already has significant scientific, technical and operational capabilities" to help with NEOs, but implementing the new plan would "greatly increase our nations readiness and work with international partners to effectively respond should a new potential asteroid impact be detected.
In addition to enhancing NEO detection, tracking and characterizing capabilities and improving modeling prediction, the plan also aims to develop technologies for deflecting NEOs, increasing international cooperation and establishing new NEO impact emergency procedures and action protocols.
According to a 2018 report put together by Planetary.org, there are more than 18,000 NEOs.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
WASHINGTON (AP) Black holes are cosmic prisons, where nothing escapes, not light or even data.
But lots did come out of Wednesday's first image of the shadowy edge of a supermassive black hole.
Here are four things we learned: SEEING IS BELIEVING Scientists have known for decades that black holes exist, but only indirectly.
Three years ago, they essentially heard the sound of two smaller black holes crashing together to form a gravitational wave.
The image revealed Wednesday showed the edges of the black hole called the "event horizon" for the first time.
There actually were a few academic holdouts who denied black holes existed, but now they can't, said Boston University astronomer Alan Marscher, who was on one of four imaging teams.
The new image shows a glowing ring that was obviously a black hole and its surroundings, said Harvard's Sheperd Doeleman, director of the Event Horizon Telescope team.
"We saw something so true," Doeleman said.
"We saw something that really had a ring to it if you can use that phrase."
He said the team "uncovered part of the universe that was off-limits to us."
EINSTEIN IS RIGHT AGAIN Each major astrophysics discovery of the last few decades tends to confirm Albert Einstein's general theory of relativity.
It's a comprehensive explanation of gravity that the former patent clerk thought of in 1915 before computers and with much weaker telescopes.
On Wednesday, Einstein's predictions about the shape and glow of a big black hole proved right, and astronomer after astronomer paid homage to the master.
"Today general relativity passed another crucial test," said University of Waterloo astronomer Avery Broderick, a co-discoverer.
"The Einstein equations are beautiful.
So often in my experience, nature wants to be beautiful".''
It sounds strange to keep saying Einstein is right, but every time his general relativity theory is confirmed, "we kill a cloud of alternative theories" and gain better understanding how to create an even more comprehensive theory of physics, said Ethan Vishniac of Johns Hopkins University.
He wasn't part of the discovery team.
GRAVITY IS POWERFUL The black hole that scientists took a picture of is in the center of a galaxy called M87 and it is far bigger than anything in the Milky Way.
Its mass the chief measurement of a black hole is 6.5 billion times as much as our sun's.
The event horizon stretches about the breadth of our solar system.
"M87's huge black hole mass makes it really a monster even by supermassive black hole standards," said Sera Markoff, a discovery team member at the University of Amsterdam.
Some black holes are inactive, but not this one, she said.
And that means it converts nearby gas and matter into energy with 100 times more efficiency than the nuclear fusion that powers the stars.
Black holes like these "temporarily become the most powerful engines in the universe," Markoff said.
WORKING TOGETHER WORKS The project succeeded because of international cooperation among 20 countries and about 200 scientists at a cost of $50 million to $60 million, according to the National Science Foundation.
To get an image of a faraway black hole, scientists had to get eight radio telescopes on several continents, including Antarctica, to look at the same place at the same time.
In getting the instruments connected, they essentially created one Earth-size connected telescope.
The amount of data generated was so massive that it could not be transmitted over the internet, so it was flown to data centers by jet.
The data collected was equivalent to a lifetime collection of selfies from 40,000 people, said discovery team member Daniel Marrone of the University of Arizona.
And just to start to take pictures the weather had to be good at all eight telescopes on the same days in April 2017.
The scientists had only 10 days to look and got four perfect weather days, three of them at the start.
It then took more than a year for that data to be processed into the first glimpse of images that scientists saw in the summer of 2018.
Those images were so good that scientists at first worried that it was just too good to be true, Boston University's Marscher said.
A hazardous "time bomb" of radioactive fallout from nuclear meltdowns and weapons testing is waiting to go off around the world.
Researchers have found evidence of nuclear fallout lurking in glaciers across the globe frozen, but at risk of being released.
A team of international scientists studied nuclear fallout around the world.
CLICK ON THE SUN FOR MORE They examined the presence of this radioactive material across ice-surface sediments in glaciers in the Arctic, Iceland, the Alps, the Caucasus mountains, British Columbia and Antarctica.
And it emerged that "man-made" radioactive material was lurking at all 17 sites surveyed.
Worse still, concentrations were found at least 10 times higher than levels elsewhere.
"They are some of the highest levels you see in the environment outside nuclear exclusion zones, said Caroline Clason, of the University of Plymouth, told the AFP.
Most nuclear fallout falls back down to earth as acid rain which is typically absorbed into the ground.
But in chillier climes, radioactive material can fall as snow and settle in ice, where it forms a heavier sediment.
This collects in the glaciers and concentrates the levels of nuclear residue.
And major nuclear incidents like the 1986 Chernobyl disaster can spread radioactive material far across the world.
"Radioactive particles are very light, so when they are taken up into the atmosphere they can be transported a very long way," Caroline explained.
"When it falls as rain, like after Chernobyl, it washes away and it's sort of a one-off event.
"But as snow, it stays in the ice for decades, and as it melts in response to the climate, it's then washed downstream."
Clason's team was also able to detect some fallout from Japan's Fukushima nuclear meltdown in 2011.
However, researchers determined that it was still too early for much of the fallout to collect on ice from that disaster.
The study also discovered significant amounts of fallout from nuclear weapons testing.
"We're talking about weapons testing from the 1950s and 1960s onwards, going right back in the development of the bomb," Caroline said.
"If we take a sediment core, you can see a clear spike where Chernobyl was.
"But you can also see quite a defined spike in around 1963 when there was a period of quite heavy weapons testing."
As global temperatures rise, there's a growing risk that this nuclear fallout will be released back into the worlds.
This could potentially contaminate food and water supplies although the study didn't focus on the impact.
So it's currently impossible to say to what degree human life is at risk from the melting radioactive glaciers.
What we do know is that radioactive materials lurking in the ice are highly dangerous.
One such material is Americium, a radioactive residue produced when Plutonium decays and which can last 400 years.
"Americium is more soluble in the environment and it is a stronger alpha [radiation] emitter," Caroline explained.
"Both of those things are bad in terms of uptake into the food chain."
She added that Americium is "particularly dangerous", and explained that these nuclear materials will be a marker of humanity's impact on the planet for generations to come.
"These materials are a product of what we have put into the atmosphere," the scientist warned.
"This is just showing that our nuclear legacy hasn't disappeared yet, it's still there.
"And it's important to study that because ultimately it's a mark of what we have left in the environment."
This story originally appeared on The Sun.
First, your insides are strung out like hot mozzarella, before you're yanked into all-encompassing darkness that swallows you whole.
Life inside a black hole would be far from pretty, bestowing a fate more strange and gruesome than almost anything experts can imagine.
Following this week's release of the first photo of a black hole, people the world over have been pondering exactly what would happen if you fell into the ominous ring.
CLICK ON THE SUN FOR MORE Scientists have dozens of theories, and we've put together some of the wackiest below.
'Spaghettification' Black holes are blobs of unbelievably dense matter with a gravitational pull millions of times greater than the force we feel on Earth.
If you got too close, these gargantuan forces would pull your body apart.
As you got closer, the difference in gravity between your head and your feet would stretch you out like a piece of chewing gum.
Scientists affectionately call this process "spaghettification".
You eventually become a stream of subatomic particles that swirl into the black hole like water down a plug.
According to TV physicist Neil De Grasse Tyson: "As you get closer and closer, the force of gravity grows astronomically.
You stay whole until the stretching force exceeds the molecular bonds of your body's flesh.
"At that moment, your body would snap into two segments.
Everything of you that ever was gets funneled to the black hole's center.
"Not only have you been ripped in half you've been extruded through the fabric of space and time like toothpaste through a tube."
Live forever The bigger a black hole is, the smaller its gravitational pull.
That's led some experts to ponder whether larger black holes would spaghettify you at all, as the forces aren't strong enough to pull you apart.
Instead, getting caught in one of these beauties could help you cheat death altogether.
Time is said to freeze at the edge of a black hole, due its extreme forces bending the very fabric of space and time.
If you reach this spot without being torn apart, you could become immortal well, almost.
Your lengthy life would only seem stretched to someone on Earth, while to you it would still feel like a normal lifespan.
"Whenever you think about time dilation in relativity theory, keep in mind that the theory is not about you.
It is about what others see," explained physicist Viktor Toth.
"You can still expect a normal human lifespan as measured by your own watch and calendar.
"Sure, billions of years would pass on the Earth in the meantime, but you will not experience billions of years.
You will experience a few decades, like any human being."
See through time The bending of space time could have other weird effects.
As you're sucked in to a black hole, time would bend in front of and behind you, allowing you to "see" into the past and future.
"First of all, you approach the speed of light as you fall into the black hole.
So the faster you move through space, the slower you move through time," Charles Liu, an astrophysicist at the American Museum of Natural History, told Live Science.
"Furthermore, as you fall, there are things that have been falling in front of you that have experienced an even greater 'time dilation' than you have.
So if you're able to look forward toward the black hole, you see every object that has fallen into it in the past.
"And then if you look backwards, you'll be able to see everything that will ever fall into the black hole behind you.
"So the upshot is, you'll get to see the entire history of that spot in the universe simultaneously from the Big Bang all the way into the distant future."
Travel to another universe and erase your past The late Professor Stephen Hawking had his own ideas about life inside a black hole.
The physicist reckoned there's a chance you could make your way out of one, though you may end up in a different dimension.
Hawking said in 2016: "If you feel you are in a black hole, dont give up.
Theres a way out."
He then claimed that anyone stupid enough to throw themselves into a black hole could be spat out into another universe.
"The existence of alternative histories with black holes suggests this might be possible," Hawking said.
"The hole would need to be large and if it was rotating it might have a passage to another universe.
But you couldnt come back to our universe.
So although Im keen on space flight, Im not going to try that.
"The message is that black holes aren't as black as they are painted.
They are not the eternal prisons they were once thought.
Things can get out of a black hole both on the outside and possibly come out in another universe."
Another theory suggests traveling to one of these other dimensions may erase your past as it may not follow the fundamental laws of our own.
Your new universe would not be governed by the rules of cause and effect that apply to ours so down is up, up is down, and your past and future are interchangeable.
This story originally appeared in The Sun.
SpaceX successfully launched its new and improved Falcon Heavy rocket from NASAs Kennedy Space Center Thursday, more than a year after sending up a "red Roadster" in its initial test flight.
The updated Falcon Heavy is now the world's most powerful operation rocket with 27 engines firing at liftoff.
It launched into the sky Thursday evening with Arabsat-6A, a Saudi Arabian satellite built by Lockheed Martin and operated by Saudi Arabia.
Eight minutes after liftoff, SpaceX landed two of the first-stage boosters back at Cape Canaveral, side by side, just like it did for the rocket's debut last year.
The core booster landed two minutes later on an ocean platform hundreds of miles offshore -- the only part of the first mission that missed.
SpaceX chief Elon Musk warned in advance things might go wrong, given the upgraded version of the rocket with unproven changes.
But everything went exceedingly well and the satellite ended up in the proper orbit.
SpaceX employees at company headquarters in Southern California cheered every launch milestone and especially the three touchdowns.
"The Falcons have landed," Musk said in a tweet that included pictures of all three boosters.
NASA offered swift congratulations, tweeting: "From our iconic launch pads at @NASAKennedy, we will continue to support the growing commercial space economy.
Musk put his own Tesla convertible on last year's demo.
The red Roadster with a mannequin, dubbed Starman, likely still at the wheel remains in a solar orbit stretching just past Mars.
SpaceX plans to launch its next Falcon Heavy later this year on a mission for the U.S. Air Force.
The boosters for that flight may be recycled from this one.
GET THE FOX NEWS APP NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine last month suggested possibly using a Falcon Heavy and another company's big rocket to get the space agency's Orion capsule around the moon, minus a crew, in 2020.
Bridenstine said everything is on the space table as NASA strives to meet the White House's goal of landing astronauts back on the moon by 2024.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
A group of lifeguards and surfers had to carry a baby great white shark on a surfboard in order to save it from being trapped in a rocky area of the South African coast back in March.
The lifeguards and surfers had to try several times to release the young shark in the water, according to a video obtained by AccuWeather, which tweeted it earlier this week.
SHARK WRAPPED IN CAR BELT RESCUED BY ALABAMA FISHERMAN, PHOTOS SHOW At first, the group of people clad in wetsuits in Victoria Bay can be seen splashing water onto the great white.
The video then shows one or two people attempting to carry the shark across the rocks and toss it back into the water.
Instead, the shark is shown flopping back onto the rocks with the low tide.
A surfer eventually offered up a board and the shark was lifted onto it and carried by three people to a different part of the beach.
GREAT WHITE SHARK CHARGES AT DIVER IN TERRIFYING MOMENT CAPTURED ON FILM With a little extra push in the water and an incoming wave, the baby great white was able to get back to the bay.
We eventually got the shark back out to sea and saw it swim away, Joshua Farrer, who was there for the rescue, told AccuWeather.
Israels Beresheet spacecraft has failed in its audacious attempt to make a Moon landing.
The spacecraft experienced a failure of its main engine just seconds before it was expected to reach the lunar surface.
"We had a failure of the spacecraft, we have not landed successfully," explained a spokesman from a deflated Mission Control in Yehud, Israel.
A problem with the spacecraft's engine was reported at 3:24 p.m.
ET and communication with Beresheet was lost.
"We definitely crashed on the surface of the moon," said Opher Doron of Israel Aerospace Industries.
He said the spacecraft's engine turned off shortly before landing, and scientists were still trying to figure out the cause.
The spacecraft, called Beresheet, was in pieces scattered at the landing site, he said.
Before the mission's failure, Beresheet snapped a selfie as it approached the lunar surface.
ISRAELI SPACECRAFT SNAPS STUNNING SELFIE ON ITS WAY TO THE MOON The unmanned spacecraft would have taken Israel into an exclusive club of space-exploring nations.
Only three countries the U.S., the Soviet Union and China have made successful soft landings on the lunar surface.
Israel, however, is one of just seven countries to have orbited the Moon, thanks to the Beresheet mission.
"Beresheet came the closest Israel ever has to land on the moon, but unfortunately the landing was not completed successfully.
We applaud @TeamSpaceIL for a tremendous scientific achievement, they made history by making Israel one of 7 nations who had ever orbited the moon," tweeted the Israeli government.
Beresheet, which is Hebrew for in the beginning, was developed by the Israeli nonprofit SpaceIL and the state-owned Israel Aerospace Industries.
ISRAEL'S BERESHEET SPACECRAFT SNAPS STUNNING IMAGES OF FAR SIDE OF THE MOON AHEAD OF LUNAR LANDING "Dont stop believing!
We came close but unfortunately didnt succeed with the landing process," tweeted SpaceIL.
Beresheet was launched from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station atop a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket on Feb. 21.
The spacecraft entered lunar orbit last week, capturing its first images of the dark side of the Moon.
ISRAELI SPACECRAFT SNAPS STUNNING SELFIE ON ITS WAY TO THE MOON The probe was expected to land within Mare Serenitatis in the Moons northern hemisphere.
SpaceIL notes that the site has magnetic anomalies, which would have enabled Beresheets magnetometer device to take measurements as part of a scientific experiment.
Data from the magnetometer, which was developed with Israels Weizmann Institute of Science, was to be shared with NASA.
In addition to its science mission, Beresheet carried a time capsule to the Moon.
Consisting of three disks, the time capsule data includes symbols such as the Israeli flag and the countrys national anthem, Hatikvah.
Dictionaries in 27 languages are also on the disks, along with the Bible and a childrens book inspired by the mission.
Beresheet was born out of the Google Lunar XPRIZE competition to land an unmanned probe on the moon.
The $30 million competition was scrapped with no winner last year after the organizers said none of the five finalists would make the March 31, 2018 deadline for a Moon launch, Space.com reports.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Ambassador Dani Dayan, Israel's consul general in New York, watched the landing attempt unfold at an event hosted at the Cradle of Aviation Museum in Garden City, New York.
The Israeli national anthem is called Hatikvah: The Hope.
A nation built on the very principle of hope will never, ever give up," he said, in a statement emailed to Fox News.
"Space exploration manages to unite all of humanity as we gaze up at the sky in wonder, and in awe, even when things dont necessarily go according to plan.
Beresheet means in the beginningand indeed, this is only the beginning of our small countrys endeavors as we pursue our big dreams.
The Associated Press contributed to this article.
Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogers
The incredible first image of a black hole proves the power of science, according to former NASA astronaut Mike Massimino.
It has been theoretically, mathematically proven that they exist, Massimino told Fox News Bill Hemmer during an interview Thursday.
Now, however, a global team of researchers has finally captured an image of a black hole, revealing the distant object in stunning detail.
The image was revealed amid much fanfare Wednesday.
FIRST-EVER BLACK HOLE IMAGE REVEALED Assembled from data gathered by eight radio telescopes around the world, the image shows light and gas swirling around the lip of a supermassive black hole, a monster of the universe whose existence was theorized by Albert Einstein more than a century ago but confirmed only indirectly over the decades.
Its great to see how science can make that prediction, Massimino said.
Einstein came up with most of these predictions 100 years ago.
The black hole was spotted in galaxy Messier 87 (M87) that is 55 million light-years away.
A light-year, which measures distance in space, equals 6 trillion miles.
KATIE BOUMAN IS THE 29-YEAR-OLD SCIENTIST BEHIND FIRST IMAGE OF BLACK HOLE The groundbreaking discovery was made by the Event Horizon Telescope, an international project involving telescopes across the globe that describes itself as a virtual Earth-sized telescope.
Telescopes in Hawaii, Arizona, Chile, Mexico, Spain and the South Pole participated in the ambitious research project.
Massimino, who is the author of Spaceman: An Astronaut's Unlikely Journey to Unlock the Secrets of the Universe, is impressed by the projects achievement in capturing such a remote image.
Its a long way away, he said.
[Black holes] are hard to see because, when light goes in, it doesnt escape.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP It took them two years to analyze the data, added the former astronaut, who logged more than 570 hours in space.
Its a ton of data.
The Associated Press contributed to this article.
Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogers
Israels Beresheet spacecraft is set to make its historic Moon landing Thursday.
The landing will be the first private mission to reach the Moon.
Beresheet, which is the Hebrew word for in the beginning, was jointly developed by the Israeli nonprofit SpaceIL and the state-owned Israel Aerospace Industries.
ISRAELI SPACECRAFT SNAPS STUNNING SELFIE ON ITS WAY TO THE MOON The unmanned spacecraft will also allow Israel to join a select group of nations.
Only three countries the U.S., the Soviet Union and China have made successful soft landings on the lunar surface.
After years of planning and preparations, Israel is finally set to land on the moon, said SpaceIL and Israel Aerospace Industries in a statement Thursday.
After a successful maneuver to lower the spacecrafts altitude on Wednesday, the organizations are making the final preparations to land the probe on the lunar surface.
SpaceIL and IAI have been working all night on last calculations, they explained in the statement.
The landing process is expected to start at 3:05 p.m.
ET, with Beresheet expected to touch down on the Moon at 3:25 p.m.
ET.
'WONDER, AWE, EXCITEMENT': APOLLO 16 ASTRONAUT DESCRIBES WALKING ON THE MOON The spacecraft entered lunar orbit last week, when it captured its first images of the dark side of the Moon.
Beresheet was launched from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station atop a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket on Feb. 21.
Beresheet was born out of the Google Lunar XPRIZE competition to land an unmanned probe on the Moon.
The $30 million competition was scrapped with no winner after the organizers said none of the five finalists would make the March 31, 2018 deadline for a Moon launch, Space.com reports.
Nonetheless, the Israeli team pressed on with the development of its 397-pound spacecraft.
'IT WAS VERY CLOSE TO AN ABORT': HOW THE NERVE-WRACKING FINAL SECONDS OF THE APOLLO 11 MOON LANDING UNFOLDED The probe will land within Mare Serenitatis, in the Moons northern hemisphere.
SpaceIL notes that the site has magnetic anomalies, enabling Beresheets magnetometer device to take measurements as part of a scientific experiment.
Data from the magnetometer, which was developed with Israels Weizmann Institute of Science, will be shared with NASA.
In addition to its science mission, Beresheet is taking a time capsule to the Moon.
Consisting of three disks, the time capsule data includes symbols such as the Israeli flag and the countrys national anthem, Hatikvah.
Dictionaries in 27 languages are also on the disks, along with the Bible and a childrens book inspired by the mission.
'THERE WAS A BIT OF TENSION': ASTRONAUT DESCRIBES WATCHING MOON LANDING WITH BUZZ ALDRINS FAMILY Beresheet and its time capsule will remain on the lunar surface indefinitely.
China became the first country to successfully land a probe on the far side of the Moon when the Change 4 lander reached the lunar surface on Jan. 2.
The U.S. is the only country to place astronauts on the Moon, having done so most recently in December 1972 during the Apollo 17 mission.
Only 12 men, all Americans, have set foot on the Moon.
NASA CHIEF WARNS THAT DEBRIS FROM INDIA'S SATELLITE DESTRUCTION COULD ENDANGER ASTRONAUTS ON THE ISS July 20, 2019, marks the 50th anniversary of the historic Apollo 11 Moon landing and lunar missions continue to be a source of fascination.
A checklist that traveled to the surface of the Moon with Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin recently sold at auction in New York for $62,500.
In the same auction, three tiny Moon rocks brought back from space by the unmanned Soviet Luna-16 mission were sold for $855,000.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Dec. 21, 2018 also marked the 50th anniversary of the momentous Apollo 8 launch.
During a series of historic lunar orbits, NASA astronauts Frank Borman, Jim Lovell and Bill Anders became the first humans to see the far side of the Moon.
The Associated Press contributed to this article.
Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogers
Archaeologists and Cherokee scholars have teamed up to decode a set of mysterious tribal inscriptions written in an Alabama cave.
The inscriptions inside Manitou Cave, near Fort Payne, are evidence of the tribe's syllabary, which the Cherokee scholar Sequoyah developed using symbols for each sound.
It was formally adopted as the tribe's official written language in 1825.
Experts published their study of the inscriptions in the journal Antiquity.
ANCIENT NATIVE AMERICAN VILLAGE IN LOUISIANA REVEALS ITS SECRETS The first inscription makes reference to the leaders of a game of stickball, the Cherokee version of lacrosse, that occurred in April 1828.
With players entering the cave before the games and during intermissions, another nearby inscription reads: We who are those that have blood come out of their nose and mouth.
The studys authors explain that stickball was a ceremonial event that often lasted a number of days.
Each team undergoes ritual preparation in private before the game, and access to purifying sacred waters is necessary, they say.
This is the event recorded on the walls of Manitou Cave the ballgame players preparing themselves spiritually for the game and cleansing themselves in the secluded subterranean waters.
Another decoded inscription, which addresses sensitive religious matters, was written backwards.
The researchers note that the inscription was written as if addressing readers inside the rock itself.
If Manitou Cave was seen as a portal to the spirit world, then words must be written backwards to be legible to the spirit residents, they explain.
'UNPRECEDENTED' NATIVE AMERICAN BURIAL SITE DISCOVERED IN GULF OF MEXICO OFF FLORIDA The inscriptions offer a fascinating glimpse into secluded sacred ceremonies that were carried out at a time of crisis for the Cherokee.
Pressures from the surrounding white populations disrupted the Cherokee ancient lifeways, culminating in their forcible relocation in the 1830s along the Trail of Tears, the authors explain.
A host of Native American tribes in the southeastern U.S. were forced to leave their homes and give up their lands in exchange for federal territory west of the Mississippi following the Indian Removal Act of 1830.
The resulting forced migration is known as the Trail of Tears.
In May 1838, the Cherokee removal process began.
U.S. Army troops, along with various state militia, moved into the tribes homelands and forcibly evicted more than 16,000 Cherokee Indian people from their homelands in Tennessee, Alabama, North Carolina, and Georgia, explains the National Park Service, on its website.
The impact of the resulting Cherokee Trail of Tears was devastating.
More than 1,000 Cherokee particularly the old, the young, and the infirm died during their trip west, hundreds more deserted from the detachments, and an unknown number perhaps several thousand perished from the consequences of the forced migration.
'LOST CITY' DISCOVERY: KANSAS SITE SHEDS NEW LIGHT ON NATIVE AMERICAN HISTORY More than 46,000 Native Americans were forced to leave their homes as a result of the Indian Removal Act, according to National Geographic.
Although the Cherokee were forcibly removed from Alabama, their words on the walls of Manitou Cave endure, explain the authors of the study published in Antiquity.
The National Park Services Trail of Tears National Historic Trail stretches for 5,043 miles through Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma and Tennessee.
DISCOVERY AT ANCIENT AMERICAN CITY HINTS AT GENDER EQUALITY In recent years, experts have been unearthing new details of centuries-old sites in the U.S.
In one project, for example, archaeologists discovered incredible evidence of a huge Wichita Indian town in Kansas that was once home to 20,000 people.
In another recent project, archaeologists uncovered an unprecedented 7,000-year-old Native American burial site beneath the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Florida.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In 2016, researchers at the Cahokia Mounds near Collinsville, Ill., released a study that sheds new light on the ancient citys power structure.
The Associated Press and Fox News Travis Fedschun contributed to this article.
Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogers
Scientists used a submersible to collect microbial samples from the Mariana Trench in the Pacific Ocean.
Photo by UEA April 12 (UPI) -- Scientists have discovered oil-eating bacteria in the planet's deepest oceanic trench, the Mariana Trench.
An international team of researchers, including scientists from Britain, China and Russia, used a submersible to collect microbial samples from the trench, which bottoms out at 6.8 miles below sea level.
For reference, the peak of Mount Everest is 5.5 miles above sea level.
Only a few expeditions to the Mariana Trench have been made, and the latest is one of the first to focus on the trench's microbial communities.
"We know more about Mars than the deepest part of the ocean," Xiao-Hua Zhang, a research professor at the Ocean University in China, said in a news release.
RELATED Even deep sea creatures are eating plastic When researchers analyzed the microbial samples collected during the expedition, they found a new group of hydrocarbon degrading bacteria.
They published the results of the study Friday in the journal Microbiome.
Hydrocarbons are organic compound made up of only hydrogen and carbon atoms.
They're found in crude oil and natural gas, among other places.
"These types of microorganisms essentially eat compounds similar to those in oil and then use it for fuel," said Jonathan Toddy, researcher at the University of East Anglia.
"Similar microorganisms play a role in degrading oil spills in natural disasters such as BP's 2010 oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico."
Researchers were surprised by the abundance of the oil-eating bacteria in the trench.
Nowhere else on Earth are oil-eating bacteria so proportionally dominant.
To better understand where the microbes are getting their sustenance, scientists collected water samples the entire length of the water column, from sea surface to the sediments at the bottom of the Mariana Trench.
Scientists found the oil-eating microbes as deep as 4 miles beneath the ocean surface, and researchers suspect the microbes live at even greater depths.
RELATED Scientists find tanner crabs feeding on seafloor methane vent The bacteria are likely deriving a significant portion of their food from pollution that sinks from the ocean surface.
But scientists also found evidence that some of the hydrocarbons are sourced from below.
"To our surprise, we also identified biologically produced hydrocarbons in the ocean sediment at the bottom of the trench," said UEA researcher Nikolai Pedentchouk.
"This suggests that a unique microbial population is producing hydrocarbons in this environment."
In addition to providing sustenance, researchers suspect the hydrocarbons help microbes survive the crushing pressures of extreme ocean depths.
April 11 (UPI) -- Scientists have discovered multiple "cryptic" species hiding inside a common Costa Rican frog species.
Warszewitsch's frog is found in Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama.
But according to a new study, not all Lithobates warszewitschii frogs are the same.
Scientists in Britain and Costa Rica used an analysis technique called DNA barcoding to compare snippets of DNA samples collected from dozens of Warszewitsch's frog specimens collected from three different locations in Costa Rica and Panama.
Genetic sequences from the specimens' mitochondria, the DNA powerhouses inside animal cells, revealed significant intraspecies diversity.
The analysis showed the common species houses several cryptic species within it.
Cryptic species are groups within a single classified species that exhibit genetic diversity greater than genetic differences between divergent, classified species.
Previous analysis suggested there were at least two cryptic species among Lithobates warszewitschii frogs, but the latest findings -- published in the journal ZooKeys -- suggests Warszewitsch's frogs consist of multiple cryptic species.
"The next step will be to gather more samples throughout the full range of the species," lead study author James Cryer, conservation biologist at the University of Plymouth, said in a news release.
"Additionally, if we are to fully discern one species variant from another, further studies that compare the physical, behavioral and ecological characteristics of the frogs, alongside more genetic testing is needed."
RELATED Humans to blame for a quarter of all vertebrate deaths on land Researchers hope their findings will lead to an improved understanding of amphibian diversity.
"If indeed there are multiple species, it may be that they have different ecological requirements, and therefore different approaches to their conservation are needed."
Cryer said.
"This study further reinforces the power of DNA barcoding for rapid, preliminary species identification.
Especially in the tropics, where habitat loss, climate change and infectious disease continually threaten many undescribed amphibian species."
When researchers analyzed the genome of the people living in Indonesia and Papa New Guinea, they found the genetic signatures of two different groups of Denisovans.
Photo by Mark Stoneking April 11 (UPI) -- The Denisovan family tree was more diverse than previously realized.
Through the analysis of ancient and modern DNA, scientists discovered a previously unidentified Denisovan lineage.
"We compared the genomes of modern -- living -- people in Indonesia and New Guinea and found pieces that match the Denisovan genome," Murray Cox, professor of computational biology at Massey University in New Zealand, told UPI.
"However, they didn't match perfectly, which is what we would expect if the Denisovans from the cave and the Denisovans that mixed into Papuans came from the same group."
Instead, Cox and his research partners found the genetic signatures of two Denisovan-related groups, both different than the original cave dwelling Denisovans.
"One of these groups is as different from Denisovans from the cave as from Neanderthals, and so should probably be given its own name," Cox said.
The discovery was published Thursday in the journal Cell, just a day after scientists announced the discovery of a new hominin species in the Philippines.
That new species, found on the island of Luzon, is much older than the groups of Denisovans described in Cell, but both discoveries highlight the importance of Southeast Asia in the story of human evolution.
Until now, most scientists assumed the hominin diversification played out across Europe and Eurasia, but the latest findings suggest researchers were misled by ancient DNA.
Because ancient DNA breaks down in hot climates and is more likely to be preserved in cold climates, more ancient DNA has been recovered in Europe and Eurasia.
RELATED New species of early human found in cave in the Philippines "The oldest DNA from the tropics is only about 6,000 years old, which isn't helpful for questions about archaic hominins," Cox said.
"It's unlikely that we will ever go back much further than that."
However, by comparing what DNA scientists can salvage from tropical hominin remains with modern human genomes, researchers can gain new insights into the complexity of human evolution in Southeast Asia.
"If you look at modern human diversity, and biological diversity in general -- plants and animals, for example -- most diversity is in the tropics," Cox said.
"This study -- and the Luzon hominin -- fits into a much bigger body of scientific findings that show that this was also true for archaic hominins; their center of gravity was in the tropics too."
According to Cox, the latest findings wouldn't have been possible without the work of scientists at the Eijkman Institute for Molecular Biology in Indonesia, especially Herawati Sudoyo, co-director of the institute.
Just as ancient DNA is biased toward Western sources, so too is the work of deciphering the story of human evolution.
"There has been a lot of criticism lately of western scientists taking from developing countries and not giving back," Cox said.
"We purposely work very differently.
I've had a genuine partnership with the Eijkman for nearly 20 years, and Indonesian researchers played key lead roles in this project."
Researchers have identified instances of horizontal gene transfer between bacteria in the human body, a finding that researchers say could help in understanding antibiotic-resistant forms of bacteria.
Photo by qimono/Pixabay April 11 (UPI) -- Microbes in the human body are swapping genes with one another, according to a new study.
Some bacteria genes can even travel across tissue barriers without their microbial hosts.
Scientists were able to identify instances of "horizontal gene transfer" using a new molecular data-mining method.
"Horizontal gene transfer is a major force of exchange of genetic information on Earth," Gustavo Caetano-Anolls, a professor of crop sciences and genomic biology at the University of Illinois, said in a news release.
"These exchanges allow microorganisms to adapt and thrive, but they are likely also important for human health.
There are some bacteria that cannot live outside our bodies and some without which we cannot live."
Because horizontal gene transfer has enabled the proliferation of antibiotic resistance among pathogens, an improved understanding of the phenomenon has public health implications.
For the new study, scientists constructed family trees of the thousands of microbes that colonize the human body.
Powerful computers and sophisticated algorithms helped scientists analyze the relationships among the different trees and differentiated between genes that were shared via inheritance and genes that were acquired via horizontal gene transfer.
"Most current methods for determining horizontal gene transfer compare DNA features or statistical similarity between genomes to identify foreign genes," said Arshan Nasir, researcher at COMSATS University in Pakistan.
"This works fairly well for relatively recent gene transfers, but often fails to identify transfer events that occurred millions or billions of years ago."
The new analysis method allowed Caetano-Anolls and Nasir to overcome this problem.
Their work -- detailed this week in the journal Scientific Reports -- showed microbes in the human body exchange genes very freely.
RELATED Bacteria can travel thousands of miles through the air "The horizontal exchange between microbes in our bodies is about 30 percent higher than what you'll find on the rest of the planet," Caetano-Anolls said.
"This implies that our bodies provide a niche that is unique and facilitates innovation at the microbe level."
Scientists determined the majority of gene transfer activity, 60 percent, occurs between microbes living in different parts of the body -- microbes in gut sharing genes with bacteria living in the blood, for example.
"Some of these could be very old gene transfer events that happened before the microbes colonized the human body," Nasir said.
"It also could be that some bacteria colonize different human body sites at different time points in an individual's lifespan.
The others could be the result of the transfer of bacterial DNA from one site to another, perhaps through the blood.
We need further experimental evidence to test this tantalizing possibility."
RELATED Activating large silent genes allows bacteria to synthesize new molecules By teasing out which portions of microbial genomes were inherited and which were transferred, scientists can gain new insights into the evolutionary histories of different bacteria strains, as well as their evolutionary relationships with the human body.
Scientists have developed a new technique for tracking iceberg calving by analyzing seismic data.
Photo by Magnus Kristensen/EPA-EFE April 11 (UPI) -- Researchers in France have found a way to measure iceberg production by analyzing glacial earthquakes.
Ice sheets and glaciers lose ice two ways: melting and calving.
Calving is separation of large blocks of ice from coastal glaciers.
Scientists, with the help of advanced satellite technology, are getting much better at tracking melt rates, the thinning of glaciers and the outflow of melt water.
But tracking calving with satellites is impossible.
When icebergs calve, the separation generates earthquakes that reverberate through the ice and can be felt a few hundred miles away.
To measure the separation of icebergs from Greenland's glaciers, scientists at CNRS and Paris Diderot University, analyzed glacial seismological data collected on the ice-covered island between 1993 and 2013.
When scientists surveyed the decade-long data set, they found more than 500 calving-caused seismic patterns.
"This breakthrough in environmental seismology has made it possible to quantify Greenland glacial shrinkage through calving," scientists reported in a news release.
The new analysis of the seismic data suggests calving was responsible for 21 percent of Greenland's ice discharge and 6 percent of the Greenland mass loss.
Between 1993 and 2013, 370 gigatons of ice was discharged into the Arctic Ocean as a result of calving.
"While calving production tends to stabilize in East Greenland," scientists reported in the journal Annals of Glaciology, "Western glaciers have released more and larger icebergs since 2010 and have become major contributors to Greenland dynamic discharge."
April 11 (UPI) -- Beresheet made history as the first privately funded spacecraft to orbit the moon, but failed to stick the landing Thursday afternoon after experiencing engine issues during its descent.
"#Beresheet's main engine fail!
Spacecraft failed landing.
Appeared to have crashed on the moon's surface!"
the Israel Space Agency tweeted.
A combination of engine and communications errors resulted in a crash landing.
Last week, Beresheet executed the engine burn needed to put itself into orbit around the moon.
After a further series of burns on Wednesday, the craft prepared to begin its landing sequence just after 3 p.m.
ET on Thursday, but a series of issues with communications, telemetry and engine function prevented it from successfully landing on the moon.
RELATED SpaceIL lunar lander in orbit around moon ahead of touchdown The landing was expected to be somewhere inside the moon's Mare Serenitatis, or Sea of Serenity.
Once on the surface, the lander was to traverse the sea's surface, taking pictures of its surroundings.
Beresheet was designed and built by SpaceIL, a privately funded nonprofit based in Israel.
The team of scientists and engineers began working on the project in 2011 as part of the Google Lunar X-Prize competition.
When Google folded the contest, SpaceIL decided to continue on.
Last week, the XPrize Foundation announced it would award SpaceIL $1 million if Beresheet sticks the landing on Thursday.
On Wednesday night, the spacecraft shifted into a more elliptical orbit in preparation for its moon landing.
"We are ready for landing!"
SpaceIL announced on Twitter.
But the British-built engine that helped take Beresheet from Earth to the moon failed to properly slow the spacecraft during its final descent.
RELATED SpaceIL teams with SpaceX for first first private moon lander mission "We've never used an engine in this kind of application before," Rob Westcott, senior propulsion engineer at Nammo, which built Beresheet's engine, told the BBC.
"The big challenge is the fact that the engine is going to have to be switched on and get very hot, then switched off for a short period of time when all that heat is remaining in its thermal mass, and then fired up again, very accurately and very precisely such that it slows the craft down and lands very softly on the surface on the moon."
As an Israeli-based mission, Beresheet was attempting to make Israel the fourth country in history to put a spacecraft on the moon.
China, Russia and the United States are the only other countries to successfully land a spacecraft on the lunar surface.
Among the fossils unearthed in the Philippine cave were several teeth, a thigh bone, and a few hand and foot bones.
Image courtesy of France's National Museum of Natural History April 10 (UPI) -- Scientists announced the discovery of a new species of ancient human, Homo luzonensis, on Wednesday.
The remains of the new human species, found in a cave in the Philippines, was first described in 2010, but paleontologists estimated that the fossil represented a diminutive Homo sapien.
Researchers weren't sure, however, and so they kept digging.
The recovery of additional bones proved the fossil belonged to a unique species.
At the completion of excavations on the island of Luzon, scientists had unearthed several teeth, part of a thigh bone, and a few hand and foot bones.
The fossils comprise the "the earliest direct evidence of a human presence in the Philippines," according to the latest study.
The fossilized bones, dated to between 67,000 and 50,000 years ago, feature a mix of anatomical characteristics, some that recall more primitive hominins and others similar to those of more modern human species.
RELATED Ancient skull provides earliest evidence of modern humans in Mongolia Scientists described the new species this week in the journal Nature.
Before Neanderthals or Homo sapiens ever left Africa and spread across Europe and Eurasia, earlier hominins left Africa and made their way across Eurasia, beginning unique experiments in human evolution.
The discovery of the "Hobbit" fossil, representing the hominin species Homo floresiensis, on the Indonesian island of Flores in 2004, proved some of these experiments made their way to the isolated laboratories of Southeast Asian islands.
RELATED All of Africa served as the cradle of humankind The latest finding -- the discovery of a second hominin species in the region -- underscores the major role Southeast Asian islands played in the evolutionary history of hominins.
With each new discovery, the story of human evolution becomes increasingly complicated.
Other excavations on Luzon suggest the more modern hominin species, the Denisovans, also called the Philippine island home.
The discovery of Homo luzonensis presents new questions about which hominins left Africa first and how hominin species ended up on island isolated by water.
At the current rate, it's likely those questions will be complicated by new discoveries before paleontologists can devise sufficient answers.
The synthetic lipids self assembled to form a membrane mimicking a natural fat molecule.
The unique assemblage creates tiny channels in which water is trapped in spaces too small for ice crystals to form, even at extremely cold temperatures.
Photo by Peter Regg / ETH Zurich April 10 (UPI) -- Scientists have discovered a way to keep water from freezing, even at extremely cold temperatures.
When water freezes, its molecules organize into a lattice pattern to form ice crystals.
The molecules of liquid water remain disorganized, free-floating, allowing water to flow.
In the lab, scientists at the University of Zurich kept supercooled water in liquid form by trapping it inside a new kind of synthesized lipid.
Lipids are fat molecules.
For the study, scientists developed a synthetic fat molecule called lipidic mesophase.
The lipids self-assemble to form membranes that look and behave like natural fat molecules.
When the membranes aggregate, they form interconnected channels measuring less than a nanometer wide.
The shape of the membrane assemblage depends on the temperature and water content.
In experiments, scientists determined water trapped inside the membrane's tiny channels can't freeze, even at subzero temperatures.
For one test, scientists used liquid helium to cool lipidic mesophase modified with monoacylglycerol to negative 263 degrees Celsius -- 10 degrees away from absolute zero.
At the extreme subzero temp, the water became "glassy" but did not freeze.
The shape and the size of the channels formed by the self-assembling lipids depends on the water content, which is hard to control.
"What makes developing these lipids so tricky is their synthesis and purification," Ehud Landau, professor of chemistry at the University of Zurich, said in a news release.
Lipid molecules have one hydrophobic component, which repels water, and one hydrophilic component, which attracts water.
"This makes them extremely difficult to work with," Landau said.
To create the new class of lipids for their experiments, researchers modeled the synthetic fat molecules after the membranes of bacteria that can survive extremely cold temperatures.
"The novelty of our lipids is the introduction of highly strained three-membered rings into specific positions within the hydrophobic parts of the molecules," said Landau.
"These enable the necessary curvature to produce such tiny water channels and prevent lipids to crystallize."
Scientists detailed their feat in the journal Nature Nanotechnology.
Authors of the new study expect their research to be utilized by other scientists.
The lipids can be used to isolate, preserve and study large biomolecules, like proteins, in a membrane-like environment.
"Our research is paving the way for future projects to determine how proteins might be preserved in their original form and interact with lipid membranes at very low temperatures," said Zurich professor Raffaele Mezzenga.
An artistic rendering images what the primitive sea cucumber species Sollasina cthulhu would have looked like 430 million years ago.
Photo by Elissa Martin/Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History April 10 (UPI) -- Scientists have discovered a new extinct species of sea cucumber thanks an exceptionally-preserved fossil found along the coast of England.
Researchers named the giant sea cucumber, Sollasina cthulhu, after the H.P.
Lovecraft monster "Cthulhu."
In the first short story in which H. P. Lovecraft introduces the creature, the famed science fiction writer describes Cthulhu as: "A monster of vaguely anthropoid outline, but with an octopus-like head whose face was a mass of feelers, a scaly, rubbery-looking body, prodigious claws on hind and fore feet, and long, narrow wings behind."
With a body measure just more than an inch across, Sollasina cthulhu was not quite as fearsome.
But the primitive sea cucumber's many tentacle-like "tube feet" would have made the creature look larger than it was -- at least to the other small animals on the ocean floor.
To get a better understanding of what the ancient species looked like, scientists ground away at the fossil layer-by-layer, taking a photograph of each layer.
Researchers then scanned the photographs and used the digitized layers to reconstruct a 3D model of the miniature monster.
Their computer analysis offered scientists a better understanding of the species' anatomy.
"Sollasina belongs to an extinct group called the ophiocistioids, and this new material provides the first information on the group's internal structures," Imran Rahman, deputy head of research at the Oxford University Museum of Natural History, said in a news release.
"This includes an inner ring-like form that has never been described in the group before.
We interpret this as the first evidence of the soft parts of the water vascular system in ophiocistioids."
Originally, scientists thought ophiocistioids were most closely related to sea urchins, but the latest research -- published this week in the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B -- suggests sea cucumbers are Sollasina cthulhu's closest relatives.
"We carried out a number of analyses to work out whether Sollasina was more closely related to sea cucumbers or sea urchins," said Jeffrey Thompson, research fellow at University College London.
"To our surprise, the results suggest it was an ancient sea cucumber.
This helps us understand the changes that occurred during the early evolution of the group, which ultimately gave rise to the slug-like forms we see today."
Male primates with showier secondary sexual traits, like the large noses of hamadryas baboons, have smaller testicles.
Photo by andy004/Pixabay April 10 (UPI) -- Primates with showy traits, big teeth or bright red chest markings, tend to have smaller testicles, according to a new study.
Male primates are hyper-competitive, and no competition is of greater importance than the battle for most offspring.
As revealed by new research, there are different strategies for sexual dominance.
One strategy is to invest evolutionary capital in large testicles and more potent semen, increasing the odds that copulation results in impregnation.
Another strategy is ornamentation.
According to the latest study, published Wednesday in the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B, showy traits, like the hair capes of hamadryas baboons or the enlarged noses of proboscis monkeys, and weaponry, such as the enlarged canines of many apes, can help males intimidate their rivals and seduce more females.
When researchers at the University of Zurich closely observed male primates exhibiting showier sexual traits, they found the primates' preference for flash comes at a cost -- smaller testes.
"Ornament elaboration comes at the expense of testicle size and sperm production," Stefan Lpold, an evolutionary biologist at the University of Zurich, said in a news release.
"In a nutshell, the showiest males have the smallest testes."
Scientists analyzed the sexual ornamentation strategies of 100 primate species and found more competitive primate societies tend to yield flashier sexual traits.
Researchers also tested the semen of different male primates.
They found bigger testicles produce larger quantities of semen.
Males who produce more semen are more likely to win the race to a female's eggs.
Because the development of flashy sexual traits and big testicles both require energy, primates can't opt for both strategies.
It's one or the other.
RELATED Orangutans make complex economic decisions "It's hard to have it all," said Lpold.
Scientists have obtained the first image of a black hole, using Event Horizon Telescope observations of the center of the galaxy M87.
Photo courtesy of NASA | License Photo The first image of a black hole showcases the supermassive black hole at the center of the galaxy M87.
Photo by Event Horizon Telescope April 10 (UPI) -- An international team of scientists shared the first image of a supermassive black hole captured by the Event Horizon Telescope on Wednesday morning.
"This is an extraordinary scientific feat accomplished by a team of more than 200 researchers," EHT project director Sheperd Doeleman said in a news release.
Researchers with the Event Horizon Telescope Collaboration presented the "groundbreaking result" during six simultaneous press conferences held around the globe.
"Scientists have obtained the first image of a black hole, using Event Horizon Telescope observations of the center of the galaxy M87," officials with EHT project announced on Twitter.
"The image shows a bright ring formed as light bends in the intense gravity around a black hole that is 6.5 billion times more massive than the sun."
Black holes are regions of spacetime where gravity is so strong that nothing, not even light, can escape it.
"Black holes are the most mysterious objects in the Universe," Doeleman said during the press conference at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. Doeleman said the image could have been just a blob, but they were thrilled to have captured the donut-like appearance of the accretion disk surrounding the black hole's shadow.
Though both exciting and surprising, the photograph closely matched the theoretical predictions of black hole experts and the computer models they've designed.
"Once we were sure we had imaged the shadow, we could compare our observations to extensive computer models that include the physics of warped space, superheated matter and strong magnetic fields.
Many of the features of the observed image match our theoretical understanding surprisingly well," said Paul T.P.
Ho, a board member on the project and director of the East Asian Observatory.
"This makes us confident about the interpretation of our observations, including our estimation of the black hole's mass."
The image is the result of a massive collaboration involving the efforts of hundreds astronomers from all over the globe.
For nearly two decades, multiple teams have worked to coordinate the observations of eight radio telescopes using Very Long Baseline Interferometry.
RELATED Split images of quasars allow scientists to calculate Hubble constant "This technique of linking radio dishes across the globe to create an Earth-sized interferometer, has been used to measure the size of the emission regions of the two supermassive black holes with the largest apparent event horizons," according to EHT.
The technique allowed astronomers to combine the power of massive observatories, including: ALMA, APEX, the IRAM 30-meter telescope, the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope, the Large Millimeter Telescope Alfonso Serrano, the Submillimeter Array, the Submillimeter Telescope and the South Pole Telescope.
Scientists used the global telescope network to target Sagittarius A, the supermassive black hole at the center of the Milky Way, and the supermassive black hole at the center of M87, a supergiant elliptical galaxy located 53 million light-years away.
Scientists found the perfectly preserved skin traces inside footprints left by a tiny theropod.
Photo by Kyung Soo Kim, et al./Scientific Reports April 9 (UPI) -- Paleontologists have discovered a set of dinosaur footprints with preserved skin patterns inside each.
"These are the first tracks ever found where perfect skin impressions cover the entire surface of every track," Martin Lockley, a professor of geology at the University of Colorado, Denver, said in a news release.
The tracks and skin traces were left by Minisauripus, one of the smallest known theropods.
The rare footprints were so small that they were almost destroyed during the early stages of a large scale excavation near Jinju, South Korea, but researchers spotted the delicate tracks just in time.
"The tracks were made on a very thin layer of fine mud, rather like a coat of fresh paint only a millimeter thick," Lockley said.
Analysis of the mud layers revealed the impressions of rain drops.
Rain fell just before the tiny raptor scampered across the mud.
The footprints and skin impressions were quickly covered by another layer of mud, preserving the tracks for more than 120 million years.
Scientists likened the texture of the raptor's skin to medium sandpaper.
The skin traces also revealed the pattern of the therepod's tiny scales -- a pattern similar to the partial skin traces found in the prints of larger, carnivorous theropod dinosaurs.
The latest findings, published this week in the journal Scientific Reports, suggest South Korea was overrun with miniature raptors during the Cretaceous period.
Last year, researchers reported the discovery of prints representing the smallest dinosaur yet discovered inside a dried lake bed in South Korea.
The Alps will be mostly ice-free by 2100 if climate change isn't slowed.
Photo by M. Huss April 9 (UPI) -- It's not looking good for the Alps' glaciers -- all 4,000 of them.
According to a new study, the mountain range's glaciers are likely to lose 90 percent of their volume by the end of the century.
Human-caused climate change is causing temperatures to rise across the globe.
In the Alps, models predict rising temperatures will accelerate melt rates.
By 2050, scientists estimate 50 percent of the Alps' glacier volume will have disappeared.
Glacial losses over the next few decades are more or less unavoidable, researchers contend.
Humans have released enough greenhouse gases into the atmosphere to fuel global warming for some time.
But a large portion of the Alps' glaciers could be saved if climate change can be slowed by CO2 emissions reductions.
"The future evolution of glaciers will strongly depend on how the climate will evolve," study-leader Harry Zekollari, a researcher at ETH Zurich and the Swiss Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and Landscape Research, said in a news release.
"In case of a more limited warming, a far more substantial part of the glaciers could be saved."
Researchers used sophisticated climate models to simulate the impacts of different warming scenarios on the Alps' glaciers.
If the climate continues to warm, the Alps will mostly be ice-free by the end of the century, but if the average global temperature increase can be kept less than the 2 degrees Celsius target, nearly 50 percent of the Alps' glaciers will be saved.
RELATED NASA studies Greenland to determine how much of it is melting At least half of the Alps' glacial volume is likely to disappear no matter what happens.
"Glaciers in the European Alps and their recent evolution are some of the clearest indicators of the ongoing changes in climate," said ETH Zurich researcher Daniel Farinotti.
"The future of these glaciers in indeed at risk, but there is still a possibility to limit their future losses."
Earlier this month, NASA shared images showcasing the dramatic decrease in the size of Lnta Glacier in the Swiss Alps.
RELATED Melting Antarctic glacier could increase global sea levels 8 feet Many communities rely on the Alps' glaciers to fill reservoirs and provide year-round drinking water.
Glacial outflows also help fuel the production of hydroelectric energy.
The latest analysis of the future of the Alps' glaciers was published in the journal The Cryosphere.
Scientists have discovered the driving mechanism behind superheated gas and dust clouds that flow rapidly down the sides of volcanoes.
Photo by UPI Photo/Scott Taylor/U.S.
Navy | License Photo April 9 (UPI) -- Large volcanic eruptions can trigger the formation of superheated gas-and-ash clouds.
These pyroclastic density currents, or pyroclastic flows, are the most lethal volcanic threat.
They're also the most common.
For the first time, scientists have discovered the driving force behind the deadly currents of volcanic particles and gas.
Measuring pyroclastic flows in real time is impossible, so scientists at Massey University in New Zealand used the Pyroclastic flow Eruption Large-scale Experiment eruption simulator to model the phenomena.
The PELE simulator precisely replicated the conditions of an erupting volcano, revealing the source of its super-mobility.
RELATED Study suggests volcanoes actually killed the dinosaurs "With several tons of pumice and gas in motion, our large-scale eruption simulations uncovered the flow enigma that has been baffling researchers for decades," Massey volcanologist Gert Lube said in a news release.
"We measured a low-friction air cushion that is self-generated in these flows and perpetuates their motion.
We were able to mathematically describe the resulting flow behavior."
Scientists identified a unique process negates the flow's granular friction.
As a layer of air lubrication develops, air is forced downwards and volcanic particles are displaced upward.
"This explains how the currents are able to propagate over slopes, bypass tortuous flow paths, and ignore rough substrates and flat and upsloping terrain, without slowing down," Lube said.
The findings, published this week in the journal Nature Geoscience, will help researchers improve hazard models and better predict the velocity, runout and spread of pyroclastic flows, allowing safety officials to get people out of harm's way.
"Discovery of this air-lubrication mechanism opens a new path towards reliable predictions of pyroclastic flow motion and the extreme runout potential of these lethal currents, thereby reducing future casualties," Lube said.
"It will be used by hazard scientists, as well as decision makers, and is envisaged to lead to major revisions of volcanic hazard forecasts."
Researchers used the Subaru Telescope's Cooled Mid-Infrared Camera and Spectrograph to capture infrared images of Jupiter's polar auroras.
Photo by NAOJ/NASA/JPL-Caltech April 9 (UPI) -- Solar wind-fueled polar auroras are heating up Jupiter's atmosphere to greater depths than previously estimated.
"The solar wind impact at Jupiter is an extreme example of space weather," James Sinclair, researcher at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, said in a news release.
"We're seeing the solar wind having an effect deeper than is normally seen."
Auroras are created when gas particles in the upper atmosphere are excited by charged particles produced by the interactions between solar winds and a planet's magnetosphere.
By studying auroras and their influence on atmospheric dynamics, scientists can better understand how the atmospheres of different planets evolve.
Scientists used the Subaru Telescope, located on the summit of Hawaii's Mauna Kea, to observe the interactions between solar particles and Jupiter's upper atmosphere.
The observations, including thermal images, showed solar winds and the resulting aurora have surprisingly expansive and penetrating impacts on Jupiter's atmosphere.
"What is startling about the results is that we were able to associate for the first time the variations in solar wind and the response in the stratosphere -- and that the response to these variations is so quick for such a large area," said JPL researcher Glenn Orton.
Scientists detailed their observations this week in the journal Nature Astronomy.
Less than 24 hours after the arrival of strong solar winds, researchers observed significant heating across a large swath of Jupiter's atmosphere.
Scientists also measured chemical changes in the atmosphere.
"Such heating and chemical reactions may tell us something about other planets with harsh environments, and even early Earth," said Yasumasa Kasaba, a researcher at Tohoku University in Japan.
NASA scientists have previously used the Hubble Space Telescope to observe Jupiter's auroras, which are some of the most energetic and dramatic in the solar system.
Previous studies suggests the size of the powerful auroras are caused by some sort of "turbulent acceleration process."
April 8 (UPI) -- Woolly mammoths and Neanderthals shared similar genetic traits, according to a new study.
Researchers suggest the similar genes allowed both mammals to thrive in cold environs.
Both species can trace their lineage to Africa, but woolly mammoths first emerged in Eurasia some 600,000 years ago, while Neanderthals emerged in Europe and spread into Eurasia around 450,000 years ago.
Scientists at Tel Aviv University, who recently compared the genomes of the mammals, suspect their shared environs explain the similar genetic traits.
Neanderthals were highly-skilled humans that lived alongside -- and interbred with -- Homo sapiens for thousands of years.
Their adaptability allowed them to spread across much of Europe and Eurasia, but the latest research suggests they possessed genetic traits that helped them thrive among frigid climes.
RELATED Woolly mammoth nuclei come alive inside mouse cells "Neanderthals and mammoths lived together in Europe during the Ice Age," Ran Barkai, professor of archaeology at Tel Aviv, said in a news release.
"The evidence suggests that Neanderthals hunted and ate mammoths for tens of thousands of years and were actually physically dependent on calories extracted from mammoths for their successful adaptation."
"They say you are what you eat," Barkai said.
"This was especially true of Neanderthals; they ate mammoths but were apparently also genetically similar to mammoths."
Barkai and Meidad Kislev compared three genetic variants, or alleles, in both mammoths and Neanderthals that have been linked to cold weather adaptability.
One of the variants influences thermogenesis and fat storage.
Another allele controls keratin production.
The third variant affects skin and hair pigmentation.
The analysis, detailed this week in the journal Human Biology, showed the variants arise from similar mutations and are found in similar places on their respective chromosomes.
"Our observations present the likelihood of resemblance between numerous molecular variants that resulted in similar cold-adapted epigenetic traits of two species, both of which evolved in Eurasia from an African ancestor," Kislev said.
"These remarkable findings offer supporting evidence for the contention regarding the nature of convergent evolution through molecular resemblance, in which similarities in genetic variants between adapted species are present."
Researchers found the return of species diversity among a group of plankton closely correlated with the general recovery of life in the wake of the K-T extinction event.
Photo by Randolph Femmer/U.S.
Geological Survey April 8 (UPI) -- Life can only recover but so fast in the wake of mass extinctions.
According to a new study, evolution imposes a speed limit on the recovery of biodiversity.
Scientists knew it took at least 10 million years for life to recover after mass extinctions, but many researchers assumed environmental factors were responsible for the speed limit.
The reality of the speed limit is reflected in the fossil record.
To better understand why life can only recover so fast, scientists at the University of Texas closely examined how life recovered in the wake of the extinction event that wiped out the dinosaurs.
Some 66 million years ago, an asteroid impact triggered a cataclysmic chain of events, wiping out 75 percent of all species on the planet.
For the new study, scientists tracked the recovery of foraminifera plankton in millennia after the so-called K-T extinction event.
The analysis showed the plankton group regained their physical complexity before their species diversity.
The findings, published this week in the journal Nature Ecology and Evolution, suggest a baseline of ecological complexity -- and corresponding physiological complexity -- must be met before evolution can drive species diversity.
Researchers found the steady increase in foraminifera diversity matched the recovery speed of life in the wake of the K-T extinction event.
RELATED Dinosaurs were flourishing prior to asteroid impact that wiped them out "We see this in our study, but the implication should be that these same processes would be active in all other extinctions," lead author Christopher Lowery, a research associate at the University of Texas Institute for Geophysics, said in a news release.
"I think this is the likely explanation for the speed limit of recovery for everything."
Previous studies have shown the environment recovers more quickly than life itself.
For some extinction events, the environment recovered and was habitable within a few thousand years after.
Yet it took life 10 million years to rebound.
Now scientists know why.
RELATED Alien species are the largest driver of recent extinctions "Before this study, people could have told you about the basic patterns in diversity and complexity, but they wouldn't have been able to answer which one is leading or how they relate to one another," said Pincelli Hull, an assistant professor at Yale University who did not participate in the study.
Rising air temperature is the largest driver of climate change in the Arctic.
File Photo by John Sonntag/NASA | License Photo April 8 (UPI) -- Rising air temperatures are responsible for driving the dramatic systematic changes in the Arctic, according to a new study.
"The Arctic system is trending away from its 20th century state and into an unprecedented state, with implications not only within but beyond the Arctic," lead author Jason Box, climate scientist at the Geological Survey of Denmark and Greenland, said in a news release.
Dozens of studies have detailed the accelerated pace of climate change in the Arctic, but the latest is one of the first to combine a variety of climate indicators, including snow cover and the shifting timing of animal migrations, into a single model.
"Never have so many Arctic indicators been brought together in a single paper," said John Walsh, chief scientist for the University of Alaska Fairbanks International Arctic Research Center.
RELATED Newly formed sea ice is melting before it reaches the Central Arctic The model analyzed the relationship between different climate inputs, including temperature, winds and ocean heat, and systematic outputs, like greening or glacier melt rates.
The results, published this week in the journal Environmental Research Letters, showed air temperature and precipitation are the most influential inputs -- the driving force behind climate change in the Arctic.
"I didn't expect the tie-in with temperature to be as strong as it was," Walsh said.
"All the variables are connected with temperature.
All components of the Arctic system are involved in this change."
The temperature differences between the poles and equators drive major current patterns in both the atmosphere and the ocean.
As the poles continue to get dramatically warmer, those differences are becoming smaller, altering global climate patterns.
RELATED Warming Arctic increases odds of prolonged drought "Because the Arctic atmosphere is warming faster than the rest of the world, weather patterns across Europe, North America and Asia are becoming more persistent, leading to extreme weather conditions," Box said.
"Another example is the disruption of the ocean circulation that can further destabilize climate: for example, cooling across northwestern Europe and strengthening of storms."
April 8 (UPI) -- Another week, another spacewalk.
NASA astronauts Anne McClain and David Saint-Jacques conducted work to upgrade the International Space Station's power system on Monday, completing the third spacewalk in three months.
During the 6.5-hour spacewalk, the duo worked to "establish a redundant path of power to the Canadian-built robotic arm," according to a NASA blog update.
McClain and Saint-Jacques also installed communications cables, expanding the wireless coverage outside the space station's orbital complex.
The new cables will also boost the capabilities of the hardwired computer network.
Last week, astronauts Nick Hague and Christina Koch attached circuitry for newly installed lithium ion batteries on the station's starboard truss.
The pair also readied the truss for future power system upgrades.
The ongoing upgrades to the space station's power system will allow the solar arrays to more efficiently store power for use when the space station is on the night-side of planet Earth.
April 7 (UPI) -- Engineers at Tufts University have developed threads that change colors when they detect specific gases.
The threads can be sewn into clothing, making gas detection technology wearable.
"Current methods to monitor pollution or harmful gases require dedicated sensors and equipment," Sameer Sonkusale, professor of electrical and computer engineering at Tufts, told UPI.
"In my mind, the power of our new approach is our sensor platform can be integrated into something you would already be wearing, such as a lab coat or even a t-shirt."
For the proof-of-concept study, Sonkusale and his research partner, Rachel Owyeung, an engineering grad student at Tufts, soaked threads in gas-detecting dyes, including manganese-based dye, MnTPP, methyl red and bromothymol blue.
The MnTPP and bromothymol blue dyes react to ammonia, while methyl red detects hydrogen chloride.
After dying the threads, scientists treated them with acetic acid, which causes the threads to swell, increasing the dyed surface area, increasing the odds of the thread reacting with target gas molecules.
Finally, the threads were treated with polydimethylsiloxane, which is gas permeable but repels water and prevents the dye from leeching during washing.
Scientists used dyes that change color when they react to gas molecules with specific chemical properties.
The color change reflected the strength of the target gas concentration.
In addition to aiding scientific observations, the new technology could help keep people safe from dangerous gases.
"You don't have to be cognizant of a hazardous environment before you've exposed yourself to dangerous levels," Sonkusale said.
"The sensor is already there with you and working."
RELATED 3D printer deposits electronic fibers on fabrics The dyes tested are sensitive to a variety of air pollution gases, including nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and acetylaldehyde.
"It is just a matter of choosing a proper suite of optical dyes for distinguishing power of these chemicals," Sonkusale said.
"One benefit of our entrapment method is that it can be used on different dye types, which is helpful for creating the sensor diversity needed for this distinguishing power."
Researchers hope to integrate their gas-detection threads with other technologies to create smart clothes.
"Our lab has recently explored many possible avenues where sensing threads can be used such as electrochemical sensors, microfluidics, and drug delivery, to name a few," Sonkusale said.
"These could be integrated with the optical threads presented here."
Scientists described the new gas-detection threads in a paper published this month in the journal Scientific Reports.
For future studies, researchers plan to target a wide array of gases and test the technology in a variety of environments.
Hayabusa-2's camera captured images of the copper cannonball striking the asteroid's surface.
Photo by JAXA April 5 (UPI) -- Last month, Hayabusa-2 shot a bullet at the surface of the asteroid Ryugu.
This week, the Japanese spacecraft launched a copper cannonball at the distant asteroid.
The probe's Twitter account, managed by scientists at JAXA, Japan's space agency, announced the bombing mission -- officially, the "Small Carry-on Impactor" operation -- a success on Friday morning.
"This is the world's first collision experiment with an asteroid!"
JAXA tweeted.
"In the future, we will examine the crater formed and how the ejector dispersed."
Hayabusa-2's camera successfully captured images of the bomb's impact and the resulting ejecta.
"Hayabusa2 is operating normally," JAXA announced in an update.
"We will be providing further information once we have confirmed whether a crater has been created on Ryugu."
Last month, Hayabusa-2 performed a brief landing on Ryugu after shooting the asteroid's surface with a bullet, kicking up debris for the probe to collect.
This week's projectile mission was intended to expose the asteroid's subsurface.
On a future close approach, Hayabusa-2 will attempt to collect samples ejected by the bomb.
Hayabusa-2 first rendezvoused with Ryugu in June of last year after a 3.5-year journey.
The probe will return the rock and dust samples to Earth in 2020.
Ryugu has a diameter of approximately 3,200 feet, four times smaller than 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko, the asteroid visited by the European Space Agency's Rosetta probe.
Planetary scientists consider Ryugu a potentially hazardous asteroid, as its orbit around the sun brings it rather close to Earth.
If Ryugu struck Earth's surface, it could do considerable damage.
Current projections suggest the space rock could pass within 59,000 miles of Earth during future flybys.
RELATED Deflecting an asteroid will be harder than scientists thought But scientists are mostly interested in Ryugu because they predict the space rock will provide insights into the solar system's early evolution.
"Studying Ryugu could tell humanity not only about Ryugu's surface and interior, but about what materials were available in the early Solar System for the development of life," according to NASA.
April 5 (UPI) -- Screw-shaped or spiral sperm swim faster than straight sperm, according to a new survey of songbird sperm conducted by researchers at the University of Oslo.
Scientists analyzed sperm samples collected from 36 different passerine species, from house sparrows to tree swallows, and discovered corkscrew-shaped sperm swam faster than straight sperm.
While speedier sperm offers a reproductive advantage, the benefits come at a price.
Doctoral student Hanna Nyborg Ststad found spiral-shaped sperm were more likely to be defective or damaged.
Straighter bird sperm may be slower, but the latest research suggests they are hardier.
Faster, screw-shaped sperm is more fragile.
RELATED Tool for controlling genetic inheritance tested in mice for the first time "Our results suggest that there is a trade-off between swimming speed and robustness of the sperm," Ststad said in a news release.
"The more screw-shaped the sperm cell is, the faster it can swim, but the higher the risk of being damaged."
The findings, detailed in a pair of studies, one in the Journal of Evolutionary Biology and the other in the journal Evolution, offer an at least one explanation for the diversity of sperm shapes found among birds, mammals and reptiles.
"This trade-off can help us understand why there are so many strange sperm shapes, not only in songbirds, but throughout the animal kingdom," Ststad said.
"The different shapes represent different strategies with different pros and cons."
RELATED Songbirds may avoid obesity by regulating energy use Ststad and her colleagues teamed with mathematicians to better understand how a spiral shape allows sperm to swim faster.
The analysis accounted for a variety of physical factors, including drag, viscosity and size.
Scientists were able to show that spiral sperm move forward by spinning through the female fluid.
"Because sperm are so tiny, they really struggle to move anywhere in the much heavier fluid, so it makes sense for them to screw their way forward," said Ststad.
Researchers aren't sure why the spiral shape makes sperm more vulnerable to damage.
"I suspect it is related to oxidative damage," said Ststad.
"Sperm cells are particularly prone to oxidative damage, which can lead to abnormalities such as those we observed.
However, very little is known about how cell shape affects the risk of oxidative damage, so we need more research."
Scientists have linked a pair of earthquakes in China's Sichuan province to local shale gas fracking operations.
Photo by VCG April 5 (UPI) -- Two damage-causing earthquakes have been linked to fracking operations in China's Sichuan Province.
The two earthquakes, which originated in the South Sichuan Basin, registered magnitudes of 5.7 and 5.3.
Though no one was killed, 17 people were hurt.
Farmhouses, barns and local infrastructure suffered $7.5 million in damages.
When scientists analyzed the seismic data, they traced the earthquakes to shallow origins, between one and six miles beneath the surface.
Human activities, including oil and gas extraction, are often responsible for shallow earthquakes.
Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of high-pressure fluids deep into rock, most commonly shale, in order to trigger the release of oil and gas trapped between the rock layers.
Often, wastewater left over from the activity is treated and then injected back into the ground.
Fracking operations are plentiful in the South Sichuan Basin, home to the Changning shale gas block.
Gas companies first moved into the region beginning in 2010, and, in 2014, several new wells were constructed.
Since the increase in fracking activity, the region's earthquake rate has risen dramatically.
Studies have previously linked fracking with earthquakes in Oklahoma, Kansas, Ohio and Western Canada.
Fracking-caused earthquakes tend to be shallow, and they also tend to feature few aftershocks.
The seismic patterns registered by the two Sichuan earthquakes showed most of the shaking occurred during the initial shock.
In a paper detailing the link between fracking and earthquake activity in Sichuan -- published this week in the journal Seismological Research Letters -- scientists claimed the injection of wastewater would increase the pressure in underground rocks enough to cause preexisting faults to slip.
Unlike other faults, which are less likely to slip in the aftermath of a sizable earthquake, the faults in Sichuan are likely to continue producing moderate earthquakes as long as wastewater injections continue.
"In my opinion, repeated moderate earthquakes can be caused as long as the injection is continuing, since a moderate earthquake releases very limited strain," Xinglin Lei, researcher at the Geological Survey of Japan, said in a news release.
"The national regulations in China should be updated with the requirement for operators to take action if some signs of fault reactivation were observed."
Lei and his colleagues hope to map the faults in the South Sichuan Basin so they can predict where earthquakes are likely to happen as fracking operations continue.
Scientists determined chimps are more stressed and less aggressive during periods of social instability.
Photo by Anna Preis/MPG April 5 (UPI) -- Chimpanzees get stressed during times of social instability, according to a new study.
Scientists at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Germany studied the behaviors of male chimps living inside the Ivory Coast's Ta National Park.
Researchers also collected urine samples to measure the chimps' cortisol levels.
Their analysis showed chimps experience higher levels of stress during periods of heightened competition among males.
Surprisingly, during periods of male-male competition, chimps display lower levels of aggression.
The contradiction suggests two things.
First, chimps get stressed when the social order is in doubt.
Second, chimps avoid conflict during periods of instability to promote group cohesion.
The latest research highlights the physiological demands of navigating social hierarchies.
Higher social status provides chimps with health and fitness benefits, but maintaining a position at the top is a drain on energy.
"To investigate costs associated with dominance acquisition and maintenance, we examined potential sources of energetic and psychosocial stressors that male chimpanzees might be exposed to on a daily basis, and particularly during periods when males compete intensively over dominance status and mating opportunities," lead researcher Anna Preis said in a news release.
The research findings -- published this week in the journal Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution -- showed stress spikes during periods of social instability, while aggression spikes during periods of social stability.
RELATED Chimpanzee call variants offer insights into roots of language diversification Status maintenance, it turns out, is less stressful for chimps.
But as previous studies have shown, primates are especially prone to stress caused by unstable relationships.
"Our study shows that open aggression was not the source of the high stress levels of males during periods of heightened male-male competition, but that males were affected by the social uncertainty induced by these competitive periods," said Preis.
"We investigated two contexts that induce social instability, competition over status and competition over mating opportunities."
The analysis showed male-male competition was stressful for all male chimps, regardless of their social standing.
The new research also demonstrated the importance of social cohesion and cooperation to chimpanzee groups.
When social order is most vulnerable, chimps altered their behavior to maintain a base level of cohesion.
"Chimpanzees are highly territorial and cooperatively defend their territories against intruders," said researcher Roman Wittig.
"Male chimpanzees might therefore avoid aggressive behavior when dominance relationship are unclear and unstable, as part of a conflict management strategy that allows them to cooperate as a group during such periods."
An artistic rendering showcases the amphibious nature of the newly discovered four-legged whale species.
Photo by A. Gennari April 5 (UPI) -- The discovery of the remains of an ancient, four-legged whale along the coast of Peru suggests the earliest cetaceans arrived in the Americas at least 42 million years ago.
Cetaceans, the group of marine mammals including whales and dolphins, evolved from small, four-legged, hoofed land animals.
The earliest cetaceans emerged in south Asia.
On the evolutionary timeline, cetaceans split from even-toed ungulates around 50 million years ago.
Just a few million years later, primitive whales -- with four legs -- had made their way to the Pacific.
"This is the first indisputable record of a quadrupedal whale skeleton for the whole Pacific Ocean, probably the oldest for the Americas, and the most complete outside India and Pakistan," Olivier Lambert, researcher at the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences, said in a news release.
RELATED Giant prehistoric shark Megalodon disappeared earlier than thought The unusual whale species was found among fossil-rich sediments at Playa Media Luna, an expansive dig site situated in coastal desert of southern Peru.
Researchers named the new four-legged cetacean species Peregocetus pacificus.
"When digging around the outcropping bones, we quickly realized that this was the skeleton of a quadrupedal whale, with both forelimbs and hind limbs," Lambert said.
Close analysis of the well-preserved fossil proved the primitive cetacean species was capable of maneuvering both in the water and on dry land.
The four-legged whale could grow up to 13 feet in length, and it used otter-like features and a beaver-like tail to swim.
The fossil discovery -- published this week in the journal Current Biology -- suggests the earliest whales made their way to the Americas from Africa by crossing the South Atlantic, aided on their journey by westward surface currents.
Scientists expect the discovery of additional fossils to provide new insights into the dispersal patterns of early cetaceans.
"We will keep searching in localities with layers as ancient, and even more ancient, than the ones of Playa Media Luna, so older amphibious cetaceans may be discovered in the future," Lambert said.
The Food and Drug Administration's approval last month of a depression treatment based on ketamine generated headlines, in part, because the drug represents a completely new approach for dealing with a condition the World Health Organisation has labelled the leading cause of disability worldwide.
The FDA's approval marks the first genuinely new type of psychiatric drugfor any conditionto be brought to market in more than 30 years.
Although better known as a party drug, the anesthetic ketamine has spurred excitement in psychiatry for almost 20 years, since researchers first showed that it alleviated depression in a matter of hours.
The rapid reversal of symptoms contrasted sharply with the existing set of antidepressants, which take weeks to begin working.
Subsequent studies have shown ketamine works for patients who have failed to respond to multiple other treatments, and so are deemed "treatment-resistant."
Despite this excitement, researchers still don't know exactly how ketamine exerts its effects.
A leading theory proposes that it stimulates regrowth of synapses (connections between neurons), effectively rewiring the brain.
Researchers have seen these effects in animals' brains, but the exact details and timing are elusive.
A new study, from a team led by neuroscientist and psychiatrist Conor Liston at Weill Cornell Medicine, has confirmed that synapse growth is involved, but not in the way many researchers were expecting.
Using cutting-edge technology to visualize and manipulate the brains of stressed mice, the study reveals how ketamine first induces changes in brain circuit function, improving "depressed" mice's behavior within three hours, and only later stimulating regrowth of synapses.
As well as shedding new light on the biology underlying depression, the work suggests new avenues for exploring how to sustain antidepressant effects over the long term.
"It's a remarkable engineering feat, where they were able to visualize changes in neural circuits over time, corresponding with behavioral effects of ketamine," says Carlos Zarate, chief of the Experimental Therapeutics and Pathophysiology Branch at the National Institute of Mental Health, who was not involved in the study.
"This work will likely set a path for what treatments should be doing before we move them into the clinic."
Another reason ketamine has researchers excited is that it works differently than existing antidepressants.
Rather than affecting one of the "monoamine" neurotransmitters (serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine), as standard antidepressants do, it acts on glutamate, the most common chemical messenger in the brain.
Glutamate plays an important role in the changes synapses undergo in response to experiences that underlie learning and memory.
That is why researchers suspected such "neuroplasticity" would lie at the heart of ketamine's antidepressant effects.
Ketamine's main drawback is its side effects, which include out-of-body experiences, addiction and bladder problems.
It is also not a "cure."
The majority of recipients who have severe, difficult-to-treat depression will ultimately relapse.
A course of multiple doses typically wears off within a few weeks to months.
Little is known about the biology underlying depressive states, remission and relapse.
"A big question in the field concerns the mechanisms that mediate transitions between depression states over time," Liston says.
"We were trying to get a better handle on that in the hopes we might be able to figure out better ways of preventing depression and sustaining recovery."
Chronic stress depletes synapses in certain brain regions, notably the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), an area implicated in multiple aspects of depression.
Mice subjected to stress display depressionlike behaviors, and with antidepressant treatment, they often improve.
In the new study, the researchers used light microscopes to observe tiny structures called spines located on dendrites (a neuron's "input" wires) in the mPFC of stressed mice.
Spines play a key role because they form synapses if they survive for more than a few days.
For the experiment, some mice became stressed when repeatedly restrained, others became so after they were administered the stress hormone corticosterone.
"That's a strength of this study," says neuroscientist Anna Beyeler, of the University of Bordeaux, France, who was not involved in the work, but wrote an accompanying commentary article in Science.
"If you're able to observe the same effects in two different models, this really strengthens the findings."
The team first observed the effects of subjecting mice to stress for 21 days, confirming that this resulted in lost spines.
The losses were not random, but clustered on certain dendrite branches, suggesting the damage targets specific brain circuits.
The researchers then looked a day after administering ketamine and found that the number of spines increased.
Just over half appeared in the same location as spines that were previously lost, suggesting a partial reversal of stress-induced damage.
Depressionlike behaviors caused by the stress also improved.
The team measured brain circuit function in the mPFC, also impaired by stress, by calculating the degree to which activity in cells was coordinated, a measure researchers term "functional connectivity."
This too improved with ketamine.
When the team looked closely at the timing of all this, they found that improvements in behavior and circuit function both occurred within three hours, but new spines were not seen until 12 to 24 hours after treatment.
This suggests that the formation of new synapses is a consequence, rather than cause, of improved circuit function.
Yet they also saw that mice who regrew more spines after treatment performed better two to seven days later.
"These findings suggest that increased ensemble activity contributes to the rapid effects of ketamine, while increased spine formation contributes to the sustained antidepressant actions of ketamine," says neuroscientist Ronald Duman, of the Yale School of Medicine, who was not involved in the study.
Although the molecular details of what happens in the first hours are not yet fully understood, it seems a restoration of coordinated circuit activity occurs first; this is then entrenched by neuroplasticity effects in synapses, which then maintain behavioral benefits over time.
To prove that new synapses were a cause of antidepressant effects, rather than just coinciding with the improved behaviors, the team used a newly developed optogenetic technique, which allowed them to eliminate newly formed spines using light.
Optogenetics works by introducing viruses that genetically target cells, causing them to e light-sensitive proteins.
In this case, the protein is expressed in newly formed synapses, and exposure to blue light causes the synapse to collapse.
The researchers found that eliminating newly formed synapses in ketamine-treated mice abolished some of the drug's positive effects, two days after treatment, confirming that new synapses are needed to maintain benefits.
"Many mechanisms are surely involved in determining why some people relapse and some don't," Liston says, " but we think our work shows that one of those involves the durability of these new synapses that form."
And Liston adds: "Our findings open up new avenues for research, suggesting that interventions aimed at enhancing the survival of these new synapses might be useful for extending ketamine's antidepressant effects."
The implication is that targeting newly formed spines might be useful for maintaining remission after ketamine treatment.
"This is a great question and one the field has been considering," Duman says.
"This could include other drugs that target stabilization of spines, or behavioral therapies designed to engage the new synapses and circuits, thereby strengthening them."
The study used three behavioral tests: one involving exploration, a second a struggle to escape, and a third an assessment of how keen the mice are on a sugar solution.
This last test is designed to measure anhedoniaa symptom of depression in which the ability to experience pleasure is lost.
This test was unaffected by deleting newly formed spines, suggesting that the formation of new synapses in the mPFC is important for some symptoms, such as apathy, but not others (anhedonia)and that different aspects of depression involve a variety of brain circuits.
These results could relate to a study published last year that found activity in another brain region, the lateral habenula, is crucially involved in anhedonia, and injecting ketamine directly into this region improves anhedonia-related behavior in mice.
"We're slowly identifying specific regions associated with specific behaviors," Beyeler says.
"The factors leading to depression might be different depending on the individual, so these different models might provide information regarding the causes of depression."
One caveat is that the study looked at only a single dose, rather than the multiple doses involved in a course of human treatment, Zarate says.
After weeks of repeated treatments, might the spines remain, despite a relapse, or might they dwindle, despite the mice still doing well?
"Ongoing effects with repeated administration, we don't know," Zarate says.
"Some of that work will start taking off now, and we'll learn a lot more."
Of course, the main caution is that stressed mice are quite far from humans with depression.
"There's no real way to measure synaptic plasticity in people, so it's going to be hard to confirm these findings in humans," Beyeler says.
The Mathematics of (Hacking) Passwords The science and art of password setting and cracking continues to evolve, as does the war between password users and abusers
Beresheet, a modest Israeli spacecraft with the audacious aim of making a soft landing on the moon, came close but ultimately failed in its goal on Thursday.
The probe crashed on the lunar surface after engine and communication troubles arose shortly before its planned touchdown.
The vehicle, engineered by an Israeli nonprofit organization called SpaceIL, would have been the first private spacecraft to make a lunar landingand would have made Israel only the fourth country to do so, after the U.S., the former Soviet Union and China.
Well, we didnt make it, but we definitely tried, said SpaceIL president Morris Kahn during a live broadcast of the landing attempt.
I think the achievement of getting to where we got is really tremendous.
I think we can be proud.
The $100 million Beresheet spacecraft was not an Israeli government project but was instead funded, built and operated through SpaceILs efforts.
It was the first of several privately funded lunar landing attempts slated for the next few yearspart of a potential new international moon rush, as both global powers and private companies race back to Earths nearest neighbor.
I think everybody kind of realizes that this is a long shot, that this is a very challenging thing to go try to do, said Bruce Pittman, a contractor at NASA and senior vice president and senior operations officer for the National Space Society, before the landing attempt.
These other teams are so far down the road, with so much momentumthey will all have their shot.
They dont all have to work.
Im just hoping that at least one of the near-term attempts, of the five to six that should happen over next 12 to 18 months, will be successful.
Beresheets Beginning Beresheet is a biblical word, the Hebrew word for the book of Genesis, said SpaceIL co-founder Yonatan Winetraub in an earlier interview.
It also means in the beginning.
It was proposed by the public and selected by national [Israeli] vote.
The naming captures the essence of the mission: a grassroots, bottom-up effort that is only the beginning.
Although it launched in February, hitching a ride on a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket carrying an Indonesian communications satellite and a U.S. Air Force payload, Beresheets journey properly began one fateful night in 2010.
That was when three young IsraelisWinetraub, Yariv Bash and Kfir Damarifirst pondered a private moon mission over beers in a bar outside Tel Aviv.
The trio went on to found SpaceIL as way to compete for the Google Lunar XPRIZE, a contest that began in 2007.
The contest had promised a first-prize purse of $20 million for the first private robotic lander to reach the moon and then complete a series of objectives, such as traversing 500 meters and sending back high-definition imagery.
The three optimists decided they had a shot at winning.
How little we knew then, Winetraub said.
We were sitting in that bar in 2010, thinking about how amazing it would be to get to the moon.
In 2011, after giving a short invited presentation to the Israel Space Agency, the SpaceIL founders were approached by someone who had been watching in the audience.
This person came up to us and said, Do you have any money?
and we just looked at each otherthe answer was obviously no, Winetraub recalled.
He said, Come to my office; Ill give you a check for $100,000.
He has given a lot more ever since.
That person was Kahn, a billionaire Israeli entrepreneur who later became SpaceILs president.
With Kahns help, the organization attracted additional hefty donations, such as a $16.4 million contribution from U.S. casino billionaire Sheldon Adelson.
Aiming for the moon showcases Israels strongest abilities, Kahn said earlier.
We dare to dreaminnovation, desire, curiosity and complexity are part of our DNA, and this project has them all.
I want to get the younger generation excited about and interested in space, just like the Apollo program did for the United States.
From the early days, that ethos has driven SpaceILs planning, which, its members say, has been centered around education and outreach rather than turning a profit.
The 1.5-meter-tall Beresheet carried a small time capsule of cultural artifacts for long-term preservation on the near-static lunar surface.
It also had NASA-supplied laser retroreflectors, which can be used by other spacecraft in or near lunar orbit for precise ranging and metrology.
On Beresheets way down to the surface, a magnetometer built by the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel, was intended to scan the desolate terrain below, gathering new data about the landscapes magnetic field that could help unveil the moons deepest origins and history.
The Race Continues Ultimately SpaceILand all its competitorsfailed to win the Google Lunar XPRIZE: the competition was canceled last year after no one succeeded within the deadline (originally 2014, and later pushed to 2018).
Although it never awarded the $20 million, the XPRIZE stimulated a sizable private moon race and gave out smaller prizes worth more than $5 million along the way.
We are proud that the Google Lunar XPRIZE, though it went unclaimed, stimulated a diversity of teams from around the world to pursue, and continue to pursue, such ambitious plans that were deemed impossible when we first launched this competition, said Chanda Gonzales-Mowrer, the XPRIZE Foundations vice president of prize operations.
Several former XPRIZE competitors remain dedicated to sending their own robotic landers to the moon in the near future, most notably the U.S.-based Astrobotic and Moon Express teams, as well as the Japanese company ispace.
SpaceX is planning to fly a Japanese artist and eight additional crew members around the moon in the companys Dragon capsule as early as 2023, and another aerospace upstart, Blue Origin, is in the midst of developing a heavy-duty lunar lander.
In the loftier realm of nation-states, the U.S., Europe, China, Russia, India, Japan and South Korea all have burgeoning lunar exploration programs supported by generous contracts with major aerospace companies.
(SpaceIL, for its part, has partnered with Israel Aerospace Industries to produce near-clones of Beresheet for customers interested in potential future interplanetary forays.)
Were going through a paradigm shift in aerospace, Pittman said.
Whats so exciting and frightening to a lot of people is the rules of the game are changing dramatically.
The standard way you did thingsgovernment leads, industry followsall those rules are fundamentally changing, and I personally think thats a really great thing.
The human family tree just got a little more luxuriant and a lot more interesting.
Scientists say fossils discovered in a cave on the island of Luzon in the Philippines represent a previously unknown branch of humanity, a species they call Homo luzonensis.
The remains reveal a tiny variety of human with a number of startlingly primitive traits that lived as recently as 50,000 to 67,000 years ago, overlapping in time with our own species, Homo sapiens, as well as other hominins (members of the human family) including the Neandertals, Denisovans and Homo floresiensis.
The find raises important questions about early hominin evolution and biogeography, and highlights just how much of human prehistory remains to be discovered.
The discovery of H. luzonensis has been years in the making.
The first hint of it surfaced in 2007 when archaeologists digging in Callao Cave, a popular tourist attraction on Luzon, recovered a single fossil foot bone.
The bone was clearly petite, comparable in size to the foot bones of the small-bodied Negrito people who live on Luzon today.
Yet its shape was really weird, recalls paleoanthropologist Florent Dtroit of the National Museum of Natural History in Paris.
Dtroit suspected that the fossil specimen came from something more interesting than a small Homo sapiens, he says.
But with only a single bone to go on, he could not make a compelling case for that interpretation.
So when he and his colleagues published their description of the foot bone in 2010, they concluded only that it belonged in the genus Homo.
Which species it came from remained uncertain.
Toe bone of Homo luzonensis is curved, a trait associated with climbing.
Credit: Callao Cave Archaeology Project Over the next few years the researchers returned to the cave to look for more bones.
They hit pay dirt, recovering 12 additional fossilsassorted teeth as well as hand and foot bonesfor a total of 13 specimens representing at least three individuals.
Detroit and his collaborators describe the new fossils in a paper published in the April 11 Nature.
One of a Kind The fossils exhibit a mosaic of so-called primitive and derived characteristics.
The primitive aspects call to mind our ancient ancestors such as Australopithecus afarensis, the species to which the famous 3.1-million-year-old Lucy skeleton belongs; the derived ones resemble H. sapiens.
Looking at the teeth, for example, the premolars of H. luzonensis are large and one of them has an extra tooth rootprimitive features.
The molars, in contrast, are very small and strikingly modern.
Together those dental traits are a very special combination that doesnt exist in any of the comparative samples we studied, Dtroit observes.
Still, the teeth alone would not be enough to justify naming a new species, explains Mara Martinn-Torres of the National Research Center on Human Evolution in Spain.
The key thing, she says, is the combination of these teeth with those hands and feet.
Intriguingly, the hands and feet of H. luzonensis are quite primitive, with curved finger and toe bones, which are typically seen in species that climb trees.
Although people today can and do climb trees, humans lost most of their adaptations to arboreality after ditching life in the trees life for life on the ground millions of years ago.
So a human ancestor from 67,000 years ago or later with climbing anatomy is unexpected, to say the least.
Considering the teeth and hand and foot bones together, I agree with the authors that the combination of features is like nothing we have seen before, Martinn-Torres says.
How on earth did H. luzonensis end up with this unique mix of traits?
This is the million-dollar question.
Identifying the ancestor(s) of H. luzonensis is impossible at this stage.
Stone tools and butchered animal bones from another site on the island hint that humans of some sort inhabited Luzon more than 700,000 years ago.
But in the absence of any bones of the ancient butchers themselves, whether they might have been H. luzonensis or forerunners of H. luzonensis is unknown.
The only other hominin fossils from the Philippines are 30,000-year-old bones of H. sapiens found on Palawan island,some ofwhich are small, but they lack the primitive features seen in H. luzonensis.
Other human ancestors are known to have lived elsewhere in eastern Asia at around the same time as H. luzonensis, but the fossil evidence is insufficient to connect the Luzon hominins to any of these other groups.
And attempts to extract DNA from the fossilswhich could shed light on the origin of H. luzonensis and how it is related to other members of the human familyhave failed.
Excavations in Callao Cave, a popular tourist attraction on Luzon, have yielded fossils of H. luzonensis and some butchered animal bones, but no stone tools.
Credit: Callao Cave Archaeology Project Unclear Origins Experts are entertaining speculative ideas about the origin of H. luzonensis, each of which would revise the story of human origins in important ways if borne out by further evidence.
To fully appreciate the the potential impact of these explanations, however, we have to first revisit a find from 15 years ago.
In 2004 scientists working on the island of Flores in Indonesia unveiled an astonishing discovery: remains of a miniature human with a small brain and a host of other primitive traits that, like H. luzonensis, lived until relatively recently.
The bones were said to represent a previously unknown member of the human family, Homo floresiensis, which was promptly nicknamed the hobbit species after J.R.R.
Tolkiens diminutive characters.
Researchers put forth two evolutionary scenarios to explain the hobbits striking characteristics.
In the first, H. floresiensis descended from large-bodied, large-brained Homo erectus and evolved its small size as an adaptation to the limited food resources available on the islanda phenomenon known as island dwarfing.
Alternatively, H. floresiensis inherited its small proportions and other out-of-time features from a more primitive ancestoran australopithecine of some sortthat somehow managed to disperse from Africa into Asia.
Both possibilities flouted entrenched ideas about human evolution.
Although other large mammals are known to follow the island dwarfing rule, humans were traditionally thought to be exempt, the idea being that the ability to invent cultural solutions to lifes challenges has buffered humans from many of the environmental forces that have shaped other animals.
And australopithecine fossils have never been found outside Africathe oldest known members of the human family found beyond the mother continent all belong to Homo.
(A handful of skeptics proposed that the Flores bones instead came from a modern human with a disease that affected its growth, but no disorder proposed thus far can account for the hobbits suite of features.)
Similar evolutionary scenarios could explain the Luzon fossils.
Given the recent increase in the number of small-bodied, late-surviving [human species] that show many australopith-like features, I think we need to reevaluate whether all of this material should be classified as Homo, says Tracy Kivell, a paleoanthropologist at the University of Kent in England.
In addition to H. luzonensis and H. floresiensis, a small human ancestor from South Africa called Homo naledi, announced in 2015,falls into this category.
(Like H. luzonensis, H. naledi also has curved fingers indicative of climbing.)
With all of the new, weird and wonderful discoveries lately, I wouldn't rule out that more primitive hominins made it out of Africa and that the small-bodied Homo species with australopith-like features have evolved from something more primitive, Kivell remarks.
Alternatively, a large-bodied ancestor like Homo erectus might have colonized multiple islands in southeast Asia and undergone dwarfing in each locale.
Differences between dwarfed species could reflect adaptations to local conditions.
For instance, H. luzonensis appears to have lived in a forested environment that might have favored climbing ability.
Another potential factor bears mention.
DNA studies have shown that human groups including H. sapiens, Neandertals and Denisovans interbred from time to time.
In theory, similar mixing could have contributed to the mosaic of traits found in the fossils from Callao Cave, according to biological anthropologist Rebecca Ackermann of the University of Cape Town.
Certain aspects of the premolars in particular may be consistent with hybridization, though she cautions that it is not possible given the available evidence from known hybrids to establish definitively that hybridization occurred in this case.
Island Explorers In part because of the evidence for gene flow between human groups during this time period, as well as the lack of comparative material from this region, Ackermann does not support the new species designation for the Luzon fossils.
I actually feel quite strongly that all this species naming is missing the point, she contends.
The real significance of the Luzon discovery, she says, is that it illustrates the extreme diversity of human ancestors during the last few hundred thousand yearsthe result of their having populated a huge range of contexts under the influence of various evolutionary forces.
Which brings us to another burning question about H. luzonensis: how did it end up on Luzon in the first place?
Luzon is surrounded by deep water.
Even during times of lower sea levels, getting to the island would still have required crossing a daunting expanse of open ocean.
Researchers grappled with the same problem when H. floresiensis first came to light.
Like Luzon, Flores is a deep-water island.
Some experts proposed that the hobbits must have had boats to make the journey.
Yet the hobbits brain was only about the size of a chimpanzees and its stone tools were relatively simplenot what one might expect of a species that could make boats.
Others suggested that the hobbits or their ancestors were swept out to sea during a big storm or tsunami and washed up on Flores, perhaps hitching a ride on drifting mats of vegetationa stroke of incredibly good luck.
With only H. floresiensis to go on, the issue remained unresolved.
But with the discovery of H. luzonensis there are now two primitive hominin species on record that inhabited two different deep-water islands in Southeast Asia during the late Pleistocene (the period between 126,000 and 12,000 years ago), which changes the equation.
One strange event may be luck; two suggest something more interesting, asserts John Hawks, an anthropologist at the University of WisconsinMadison.
What is more, he says, there is good archaeological evidence (though no fossils) of hominins on Sulawesianother Indonesian island surrounded by deep waterwell before modern humans were in the region.
These hominins were crossing water barriers.
We dont know how regular it was, but I have to think that each successful population is a survivor of many possibly unsuccessful attempts.
The big-picture lesson here is that these early ancestors were much more adaptable than we used to give them credit for, Hawks says.
They were smart, they learned from each other, and they transmitted traditions that helped them quickly adapt to new ecologies.
In a landmark study, NASA scientists conducted exhaustive tests on Scott Kelly during his grueling 342-day tour aboard the International Space Station in 20152016.
And they simultaneously monitored his identical twin brother Mark (a retired astronaut who was on Earth at the time), hoping the comparison would reveal new information about the effects of long-term spaceflight on the human body.
The results of the NASA Twins Study, reported Thursday in Science, show Scott Kelly underwent a number of physiological changesmost of which returned to pre-flight status after he returned to Earth.
The findings could help inform preparations for future long-term missions, such as travel to Mars or stints on a moon-orbiting space station.
The study was the first to integrate both behavioral analysis and physiology to investigate how space influences a person, and the first to collect two years of such comprehensive health data on a middle-aged Earthbound man, says co-author Brinda Rana, a molecular geneticist at University of California, San Diego.
[This is] science at its best, in many ways, because it is leveraging something that is naturally occurring to try and understand causality, says behavioral geneticist S. Alexandra Burt, who co-directs the Michigan State University Twin Registry and was not involved in the study.
I think this was a unique event and they capitalized on it beautifully.
Kelly says he initially proposed the study while preparing for the ISS mission.
I said, Hey, if anyone asks about any studies planned with my brother Mark and I, because were identical twins, is there any interest in that?
he says.
He was initially rebuffed, but he says NASA scientists eventually spoke to several universities and they found out there was actually a lot of interest.
The Twins Study was a go.
For nearly two years both brothers provided urine, stool and blood samples, which researchers used for 10 separate investigations involving the molecular, physiological and cognitive effects of long-term spaceflight.
Close coordination among the many investigators was essential.
NASA got 10 investigators from around the countrymost of whom didnt know each otherand put us in a room and got us to all cooperate and become a cohesive team to carry out this mission, Rana says.
The inherent difficulties of collecting such specimens from an astronaut aboard the ISS meant the investigators had to work with relatively scant material.
We had to come up with protocols where we could all do our studies effectively with one sample, Rana says.
The study also spurred researchers to innovate new methods for studying physiology and genetics in space.
Its helped us drive technology to do these sorts of experiments not just for low-Earth orbit, but for future activities [such as] exploration missions, says co-author Stuart Lee, a cardiovascular scientist at KBRwyle.
Kelly had to draw his own blood and collect his own urine and stool.
Certainly its more complicated to pee in a bag in space, because everything floats, he notes.
But most importantly, it takes time.
Astronauts sometimes find themselves almost subconsciously trying not to be as hydrated on urine collection days because of the time it takes to pee.
This was reflected in the results: researchers found Kelly was consistently mildly dehydrated, a common phenomenon among astronauts on long-term missionsand scientists do in fact attribute this to astronauts annoyance with the complicated onboard lavatory.
The study found Kelly was under near-constant physiological stress while in flight.
His immune system was on high alert; he had changes in DNA expression; his carotid artery became distended.
He also developed spaceflight-associated neuro-ocular syndrome, or SANSa condition that involves changes to his eyes, and for which the cause is poorly understood.
And his blood, no longer drawn to his legs by gravity, collected in his head.
In the beginning, its the worst, Kelly says.
Your body adjusts to it over time, but in my experience, it never adjusts completely.
I always felt pressure in my head.
While in flight, Kellys telomeresthe protective sequences of repeating nucleotides that cap the ends of each chromosome like aglets on a shoelacegrew longer.
That certainly was a surprise, because going into the study we had proposed exactly the opposite, says Susan Bailey, a biologist at Colorado State University who directed the studys telomere investigation.
Telomeres shorten as we age, and an enzyme called telomerase repairs and lengthens them.
Astronauts are exposed to extreme stresses of microgravity, isolation and radiation that should contribute to telomere shortening, Bailey says.
She suspects Kellys highly regimented diet and exercise program aboard the ISS may have contributed to the lengtheningor that the phenomenon may indicate his cell population was changing during spaceflight.
Going forward, I think we will try to incorporate these telomere endpoints into some of the standard measurements that theyre doing on the astronauts, so that we could actually address that question directly, she says.
After Kelly returned to Earth, most of the physiological, gene expression and other changes returned to normal within about six months.
But there was still a period of adjustment.
When you get back to Earth all the blood just wants to pool in your legs, he says.
That lasted for me for weeks.
He also developed rashes and hives whenever his skin, which had grown unaccustomed to gravity, had any pressure on it.
Even leaning on a table caused a reaction.
But he did eventually readjust, a hopeful sign there may be little lasting danger to astronauts health after long periods in space.
That said, it is important to note that traveling to Mars or other long-distance explorations presents an additional concern: radiation.
Astronauts aboard the ISS are still somewhat protected from cosmic rays by the Earths magnetic shield; a Mars mission would expose them to galactic radiation at much higher levels, Lee says.
The study authors caution that given the extremely small sample size, it is impossible to attribute causality.
They write that the study should be hypothesis-generating and framework-defining, with future research on astronauts complementing the work.
Thats all true, Burt says.
But she adds that having a genetically identical subject back on Earth allows for assuming causality much more strongly than the study otherwise could have.
Kelly agrees: Granted, this is an experiment with an n of one, he says.
But they didnt see anything that would prevent us from going to Mars.
However, he adds, if were going to go beyond Marsrequiring astronauts to stay in microgravity for years on endwere going to have to start thinking about artificial gravity.
When Hurricane Florence struck North Carolina last fall, floodwaters swamped vast stretches of farmland and graphically demonstrated a threat this part of the country is particularly vulnerable to: massive volumes of animal waste overflowing into waterways.
North Carolina has one of the worlds largest concentrations of industrial pig farms, with more than 2,000 operations involving a total of about 10 million hogs.
Most store manure in open-air pits called lagoons, and when these overflow they can contaminate waterways with pathogens, pharmaceuticals and nutrients that pose serious pollution and health risks.
Environmental watchdogs are on the frontlines of monitoring such overflow events and tracking the damage, both in North Carolina and from other livestock and poultry farms around the country.
But first they need to actually find the industrial farmsmany of which are not legally required to make their locations publicly available.
This forces would-be monitors to manually pick out farms from satellite and aerial imagerya task that can take months (or, in the case of one state agency in Iowa, longer than three years) to complete.
But researchers at Stanford University have found a way to pinpoint these farms in a fraction of that time, by using machine learning to train a computer model to identify them.
We realized this was exactly the kind of place where we could leverage the really rapid advancements in computer vision, says Stanford law professor Daniel Ho, who co-authored a new paper on the technique, published in Nature Sustainability this week.
Ho and his team focused on farms called concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFOs).
These are defined as containing more than 1,000 beef cattle, 2,500 pigs or 125,000 broiler chickens for more than 45 days.
CAFOs across the country churn out roughly 335 billion tons of manure each yearbut they are not required to treat it in the same way that jurisdictions and homes must treat human waste.
When a single CAFO can produce as much manure [fecal waste] as a medium-sized city, Ho says, how do we ensure that the waterways of the United States are protected?
The federal government does regulate effluent discharge from CAFOsup to a point.
The Environmental Protection Agency requires these operations to obtain discharge permits, which limit the quantity of waste and areas where CAFOs can legally discharge it, but these limits only apply to operations that actively release effluent into waterways.
Some farmers say such rules are enough to protect waterways.
The EPAs charge is to protect the waters of the U.S. to make sure they are safe for drinking and recreating in, says Paul Bredwell, vice president of environmental protection with the U.S. Poultry and Egg Association in Tucker, Ga.
If the EPA is satisfied with their regulations, then certainly we feel as though, if we adhere to those regulations, then [farmers] are going to do their job in protecting the environment.
But some environmental groups argue that the EPA standards are too lax, in part because they do not account for unforeseen overflow events during storms like Hurricane Florence.
This has motivated these groups to seek more stringent regulation and oversight, Ho says.
The first step is locating the farms.
To train a computer model to help, Ho and his team compiled 24,440 publicly available satellite images from a study area across North Carolina.
A crew of students helped the team manually sift through these photos for the hallmark features of CAFOs, such as clusters of long, narrow buildings and, in the case of hog farms, open-air lagoons (many North Carolina poultry farms do not have such lagoons because they store waste indoors).
The team also identified similar-looking facilities the computer might mistake for CAFOs.
Examples included airplane hangars, which are also often clustered together but tend to sit amid concrete runways rather than agricultural land, Ho explains.
Once the researchers fully trained the model to distinguish CAFOs, the team demonstrated that computer vision could successfully identify 95 percent of the CAFOs that a manual survey had foundbut in less than one tenth the time.
Thats something we would strongly considering investing in, say Soren Rundquist, director of spatial analysis at the nonprofit Environmental Working Group (EWG) in Washington, D.C. Rundquist contributed imagery and guidance to Hos team but was not an author on the new study.
He has conducted extensive manual surveys of CAFOs for his work with EWG, and knows firsthand how time-consuming that task can be.
Allowing a computer to guide you where to look and manually validating the computers results will definitely help streamline the process, he says.
Rundquist also notes this will be especially valuable as CAFOs continue to rapidly proliferate, creating a moving target for environmental groups monitoring efforts.
Still, Rundquist notes this technology is relatively young and will need fine-tuning to capture the nuances of different CAFO designs, especially in other parts of the country.
For example, hog CAFOs in the Midwest generally lack the outdoor manure lagoons typical of those in North Carolina, so the model would need to undergo region-specific training.
Rundquist also notes that most nonprofit environmental organizations would probably not have the capacity to deploy the technology on their own, at least in the short term.
The software requires a level of familiarity with coding that academic groups may have, but nonprofits may not.
They would likely need to work together, at least in the technologys initial phase, Ho says.
At this early stage the method also would not completely eliminate the human element in identifying farm locations.
People would still need to manually confirm the accuracy of the computer models results.
But the program does offer a helpful launching point to speed up that process.
We view it as a first step, Ho says, to show how machine learning can be a viable and cost-effective complement to human monitoring efforts.
It actually worked.
The Event Horizon Telescope (EHT) has always sounded like an unlikely proposition: create a virtual Earth-size telescope to take a picture of the shadow of a black hole.
Every piece of that sentence is a little bit insane.
But it worked.
After more than a decade of technical development and fundraising and astronomer-herding and telescope-wrangling, the astronomers of the EHT unveiled the first picture of a black holea bubble of pure gravity, a hole in spacetime, a prediction of general relativity so strange that Albert Einstein himself long refused to believe the concept was possible.
In six simultaneous press conferences on four continents, astronomers lit up projection screens with an image that, for experts at least, is unmistakable: a dark circle surrounded by a ring of light and lopsided fiery blobs, clumps of matter heated to 100 million degrees and circling the black hole at close to the speed of light.
Technically, this is a picture of the shadow of a black hole: specifically, a supermassive black holea 6.5-billion-solar-mass beast 55 million light years from Earthat the center of the galaxy Messier 87.
Black holes trap everything that falls in, including light, which is why they are black.
In a sense, they are fundamentally unseeable, one-way cosmic escape hatches leading to well, that part is unclear.
But because of the way they warp spacetime, they impose a dark silhouette on the glowing, superheated matter that circles them.
This is the barely imaginable scene the EHT captured during an observing run two years ago, and revealed to the world today.
Since the 1960s, when indirect astronomical evidence and breakthroughs in theoretical physics made the existence of black holes all but undeniable, these objects have been in a sort of epistemological limbo: they were the most likely explanation for all sorts of otherwise inexplicable phenomena, but no one held out much hope of ever seeing one.
That changed in the late 1990s, when astronomers around the world began building powerful high-frequency radio observatories on high ground in Hawaii, Mexico, Chile and the South Pole.
Theoretical astrophysicists calculated that, in theory, uniting these telescopes using a technique called Very Long Baseline Interferometry would allow them to see the shadows of supermassive black holes that were sufficiently huge and close to Earth.
The biggest prize has always been Sagittarius A*, the four-million solar-mass black hole at the center of the Milky Way.
Sagittarius A* remains unseenat least by the public.
But M87, the only other known black hole within the EHTs grasp, has now been captured.
Usually big scientific discoveries like this leak early, but this time the astronomers kept surprisingly tight control.
France Crdova, the director of the National Science Foundationwhich invested $28 million in the EHT over the yearssaw the image for the first time at this mornings press conference.
It moved her to tears.
The NSF and other funding institutions promised that todays result would be groundbreaking, and it certainly wasthe first direct evidence for the existence of event horizons, the defining feature of a black hole.
But anyone hoping that this first image would chip away at Einsteins iron-clad theory of general relativity came away disappointed: the black hole looks pretty much exactly like the century-old theory says it should.
But this first picture is only a start.
Since the 2017 observation, the EHT array has already grown in size and acuity, with a new telescope joining and another on the way, and with the installation of ever-more-powerful digital signal processing hardware at each site.
As Sera Markoff, an astrophysicist with the University of Amsterdam, said at this mornings press conference, in the future all sorts of other telescopes will join the EHT to observe M87, Sagittarius A* and other black holes simultaneously in many different bands of lightradio, x-ray, gamma ray, infrared and optical.
It is also worth noting that in the two hours after the press conference, at least six scientific papers on the observation have appeared online.
They almost certainly contain clues and new questions that will take more time to process than a 24/7 news cycle can tolerate.
For now, though, it is worth pausing for a moment to consider the strangeness of nature, and the remarkable fact that these sentient, tool-using bipeds on a small world in a backwater solar system somehow managed to turn their planet into a telescope and take a picture of an exit chute from the universe.
At six simultaneous press conferences around the globe, astronomers on Wednesday announced they had accomplished the seemingly impossible: taking a picture of a black hole, a cosmic monster so voracious that light itself cannot escape its clutches.
This historic feat, performed by the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT)a planet-spanning network of radio observatoriesrequired more than a decade of effort.
The projects name refers to a black holes most defining characteristic, an event horizon set by the objects mass and spin beyond which no infalling material, including light, can ever return.
We have taken the first picture of a black hole, the EHT projects director, Sheperd Doeleman, said in a news release.
This is an extraordinary scientific feat accomplished by a team of more than 200 researchers.
The image unveils the shadowy face of a 6.5-billion-solar-mass supermassive black hole at the core of Messier 87 (M87), a large galaxy some 55 million light-years from Earth in the Virgo galaxy cluster.
Such objects are a reflection of Einsteins theory of general relativity, which predicts that only so much material can be squeezed into any given volume before the overwhelming force of its accumulated gravity causes a collapsea warp in the fabric of spacetime that swallows itself.
Left behind is an almost featureless nothingness that, for lack of better terms, scientists simply call a black hole.
Once thought to be figments of theorists wildest imaginings, black holes are now known to be crucial arbiters of cosmic structure, profoundly affecting the formation and evolution of stars and galaxies across the universe.
The one in M87, for instance, is devouring a whirling accretion disk of material, which just outside the event horizon powers a star-scouring jet of intense radiation and relativistic particles blasting some 5,000 light-years out from the galaxys core.
Analyses of the imagepublished in a series of six papers in the Astrophysical Journal Lettersconfirm that within the limits of the EHTs present sensitivity the shape and behavior of M87s black hole fits Einsteins predictions.
If immersed in a bright region, like a disc of glowing gas, we expect a black hole to create a dark region similar to a shadowsomething predicted by Einsteins general relativity that weve never seen before, read a statement released by Heino Falcke, chair of the EHT Science Council.
This shadow, caused by the gravitational bending and capture of light by the event horizon, reveals a lot about the nature of these fascinating objects and allowed us to measure the enormous mass of M87s black hole.
But the best is yet to come; the EHT is planned to operate indefinitely and has also targeted the Milky Ways central supermassive black hole, Sagittarius A*, in hopes of imaging our nearest, most familiar cosmic monster.
Those results, project leaders say, will emerge from behind their own veil of secrecy in the future.
The vast majority of neuroscientific studies contain three elements: a person, a cognitive task and a high-tech machine capable of seeing inside the brain.
That simple recipe can produce powerful science.
Such studies now routinely yield images that a neuroscientist used to only dream about.
They allow researchers to delineate the complex neural machinery that makes sense of sights and sounds, processes language and derives meaning from experience.
But something has been largely missing from these studies: other people.
We humans are innately social, yet even social neuroscience, a field explicitly created to explore the neurobiology of human interaction, has not been as social as you would think.
Just one example: no one has yet captured the rich complexity of two peoples brain activity as they talk together.
We spend our lives having conversation with each other and forging these bonds, neuroscientist Thalia Wheatley of Dartmouth College says.
[Yet] we have very little understanding of how it is people actually connect.
We know almost nothing about how minds couple.
Group Brainprints That is beginning to change.
A growing cadre of neuroscientists is using sophisticated technologyand some very complicated mathto capture what happens in one brain, two brains, or even 12 or 15 at a time when their owners are engaged in eye contact, storytelling, joint attention focused on a topic or object, or any other activity that requires social give and take.
Although the field of interactive social neuroscience is in its infancy, the hope remains that identifying the neural underpinnings of real social exchange will change our basic understanding of communication and ultimately improve education or inform treatment of the many psychiatric disorders that involve social impairments.
Previous limits on technology were a major obstacle to studying real human interaction.
Brain imaging requires stillness, and scientific rigor demands a level of experimental control that is anything but natural.
As a result, it is hard to generate high-quality data about one brain.
Doing so for two brains is more than twice as hard, neuroscientist David Poeppel of New York University says.
You have to synchronize the machinery, the data and the data acquisition.
Nevertheless, the first study to successfully monitor two brains at the same time took place nearly 20 years ago.
Physicist Read Montague, now at Virginia Tech, and his colleagues put two people in separate functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) machines and observed their brain activity as they engaged in a simple competitive game in which one player (the sender) transmitted a signal about whether he or she had just seen the color red or green and the other player (the receiver) had to decide if the sender was telling the truth or lying.
Correct guesses resulted in rewards.
Montague called the technique hyperscanning, and his work proved it was possible to observe two brains at once.
Initially, Montagues lead was followed mostly by other neuroeconomists rather than social neuroscientists.
But the term hyperscanning is now applied to any brain imaging research that involves more than one person.
Today the techniques that fit the bill include electroencephalography (EEG), magnetoencephalography and functional near-infrared spectroscopy.
Use of these varied techniques, many of them quite new, has broadened the range of possible experiments and made hyperscanning less cumbersome and, as a consequence, much more popular.
Engagement Matters Beyond the practical challenges of interactive neuroscience, a more philosophical question has circulated as to whether the neural information obtained from measuring people during social interaction is significantly different from scans taken when people are alone or acting simply as observers.
Does it matter if the person you look at looks back?
Is there a difference between speaking a sentence and speaking it to someone who is listening?
Yes, apparently there is.
The evidence is growing, says psychiatrist and social neuroscientist Leonhard Schilbach of the Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry in Munich, that social cognition is fundamentally different when youre directly engaged with another person as opposed to observing another person.
Demonstrating those differences does not necessarily require studies of more than one brain at a time, but it does require relatively naturalistic experiments that are challenging to design within the constraints imposed on standard laboratory protocols.
Psychologist Elizabeth Redcay of the University of Maryland studies social interaction in autism, with a focus on middle childhood.
Back in 2010, when she was a postdoctoral fellow working with Rebecca Saxe at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Redcay set up a pioneering experiment featuring one participant inside the scanner and another (actually a researcher) outside it interacting live through a video feed.
Recorded videos of another interlocutor served as a control.
In the live versus the recorded interactions, Redcay saw greater activation in brain areas involved in social cognition and reward.
Her subsequent studies have continued to establish differences in the way the interacting brain responds.
In childrens brains, more of the regions involved in thinking about the mental states of othersmentalizing, in the vernacularare engaged when they believe they are interacting with a peer than when they are not.
In studies of joint attention, a critical component of social interaction, Redcay found that the mentalizing regions of the brain such as the temporal parietal junction responded differently when sharing attention rather than when looking at something by oneself.
Now she wants to know if there are further differences in how the brains of individuals with autism interact.
Is the extent to which people engage those mentalizing regions related to their successes in a social interaction?
she wonders.
It is too soon to say, but clearly, says Redcay, youre not getting the full story if you just rely on observer approaches.
Schilbach has been one of the foremost proponents of what he calls second-person neuroscience.
His studies have included virtual characters who seem to respond to a participants gaze.
In such situations, the so-called mentalizing network and the action-observation network seem to be much more closely connected [than we knew], Schilbach says.
They influence each other, sometimes in a complementary and sometimes in an inhibitory fashion.
Schilbach has also found that even very simple acts such as gazing at another individual and believing they are gazing backan interaction in which you sense that your own behavior has an effect on another personspurs activity in the brains reward circuitry, particularly the ventral striatum.
And the more rewarding we find a behavior, the more likely we are to repeat it.
The Eyes Have It What is happening in the other persons brain?
Eye contact was a logical place to look.
Making eye contact activates the social brain and signals to another person that you are paying attention.
It is one way we share intention and emotion.
Norihiro Sadato of the National Institute for Physiological Sciences in Japan and his colleagues used hyperscanning to show, early in 2019, that eye contact prepares the social brain to empathize by activating the same areas of each persons brain simultaneously: the cerebellum, which helps predict the sensory consequences of actions, and the limbic mirror system, a set of brain areas that become active both when we move any part of the body (including the eyes) and when we observe someone elses movements.
The limbic system, in general, underlies our ability to recognize and share emotion.
In other words, it is critical to regulating our capacity for empathy.
The tales we tell each other are an ideal means of exploring the social glue that binds.
Neuroscientist Uri Hasson of Princeton University conducted seminal experiments in brain coupling by using storytelling.
In one such study, he put an individual in a scanner and had that person tell a story.
Then he put someone new in the scanner and had the volunteer listen to a recording of the story told by the first person.
Hasson compared the brain processing of speaker and listener across time, matching activity moment by moment, and he found evidence of the two brains coupling.
The brain of the listener becomes similar to the brain of the speaker, Hasson says.
And the more aligned the brains were, the greater the listeners reported comprehension.
Says Hasson, Your brain as an individual is really determined by the brains youre connected to.
Hasson has recently joined forces with Dartmouths Wheatley to see if they can measure brains coupling during conversation.
A good conversation, says Wheatley, means creating new ideas together and experiences you couldn't have gotten to alone.
She wants to see that experience in the brain.
Their study includes scanners at different universities connected online.
(Most psychology departments only have one scanner.)
With one person in each scanner, the subjects complete a story taking turnsone participant utters a few sentences, and the other picks up where the companion left off.
If the scientists can capture brain states during this interaction, Wheatley says, they might be able to see how two brains alternately get closer and then move apart from each other during conversation.
Beyond Pairs Perhaps inevitably, neuroscientists have moved to studying not just two, but many brains at once.
These experiments require the use of EEG because it is portable.
Early studies showed that when we engage in group activities like concerts or movies, our brain waves become synchronizedthe audiences rapt attention means they process the symphonic finale or a love or fight scene in the same way.
That is not all that surprising, but now scientists are applying the same approach in classrooms, where the findings could add to what we know about how students learn best.
In a series of studies in New York City high schools, a team of New York University researchers including Poeppel, Suzanne Dikker and Ido Davidesco took repeated EEG recordings from every student in a biology class over the course of a semester.
They found that students brainwaves are more in sync with each other when they are more engaged in class.
Brain-to-brain synchrony also reflects how much students like each other and the teachercloser relationships lead to more synchronization.
Their current study is examining whether levels of brain synchrony during class predict retention of material learned.
I think what were doing is very useful, Poeppel says.
How [do we] use these techniques in a targeted way for STEM learning?
Schilbach believes interactive neuroscience has real-life applications in psychiatry as well.
It could make it possible to predict which therapist will work best with which patient, for example.
And the focus on real-life situations helps ensure that any findings have value for patients.
As a psychiatrist, Schilbach says, Im not interested in helping a person to get better on a particular social cognitive task.
Im trying to help that person to lead a happy and satisfying life.
The Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory comprises about a dozen small buildings nestled among pine trees in the Palisades, 15 miles north of Manhattan.
On the second floor of the observatorys geoscience building, the shelves lining Columbia University paleontologist Paul Olsens labyrinthine office sag under the weight of hundreds of books about dinosaurs: The Dinosaur Data Book, The Ultimate Dinosaur, Dinosauri In Italia.
Olsen has been studying them since he was a teenager.
His first paleontological achievement came while he was still in high school.
Almost single-handedly, Olsen convinced the Nixon administration to designate a site where dinosaur footprints had been discovered as a National Natural Landmark.
Now a professor with a shock of white hair and a mustache he strokes absently when considering how to explain a complex point, Olsen leads the way past towering racks of geological samples to a corner of a cavernous walk-in refrigerator.
Here, graduate student Sean Kinney unpacks slim cardboard boxes to reveal a collection of stone cylinders, each about three feet long and four inches in diameter.
They are delicately layered: some are cadet gray and marbled with white bands, while others are shades of caramel and auburn.
These are sediment cores.
Drilled from ancient lake beds, each three-foot segment represents about five millennia of Earths history.
Together with hundreds of others like them, they make up the Geological Orrery.
Olsen is fond of saying geologists look at the rock record to discover things about the Earth we cannot learn any other way.
With the orrery, he uses sedimentary records to reckon the orbital positions of the Earth and other planets more than 200 million years ago.
The method is unprecedented: counterintuitively, Olsen digs down to look up.
In the case of the Earths history, you need a lot of observations to see what the patterns are before you can derive a hypothesis, Olsen says.
The world's too complicated to derive a hypothesis from a series of assumptions and deduce what it must be.
And with complex dynamical systems like the solar system, you cant.
There is no analytical solution to the solar system problem, period.
You need empirical information.
Olsen published the orrerys preliminary resultssome 24 million years worth of empirical datain Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in January.
An orrery, like many scientific instruments invented during the Enlightenment, is an attempt to constrain a dynamic corner of the universein this case, the solar systemin an orderly model.
Orreries represent the sun and planets with globes and clockwork mechanisms; the first modern one was built for Charles Boyle, the Fourth Earl of Orrery, in 1704.
Olsens Geological Orrery eschews clockwork.
Instead, it relies on the rate at which sediment accumulated in ancient lakes and rivers.
Locked into the rock record, these layers of sediment provide clues about the Earths climate history, which in turn evidence the planets orbital variations over millions of years.
The question of where the planets were hundreds of millions of years ago is couched in another: are the orbits of the planets stable?
Eighteenth-century orreries presumed they were, even as Isaac Newton realized that in a system of more than two orbiting bodies, the gravitational interactions between them would send them careening apart or tumbling into one another.
For his part, Newton declared the solar systems apparent invariability was evidence that a divine creator was tweaking the planetary motions, as if winding a watch.
Preferring to live on a planet that would placidly orbit the sun forevermore, astronomers spent the next two centuries attempting to find an analytical proof that could demonstrate the solar system was stable.
But the proof was unattainable: the solar system is chaotic.
The chaos occurs over immense timescales and is caused by the accumulation of slight gravitational attractions between the planets.
Jupiter tugs at Mercury; the moon is quietly divorcing the Earth.
The planetary orbits wobble and wander, says PNAS study co-author Jessica Whiteside, a molecular paleontologist at the University of Southampton.
As a result, astronomers can accurately estimate the relative positions of the planets only to about 60 million years agoanything beyond that and too much chaos builds up, obfuscating the deeper past.
But hidden in that chaos is also a solution to finding out where the planets once were.
The Earths orbit shifts between several statesmore circular or elliptical, with greater or lesser axial tilt and precessionacross millennia.
The cycles between circular and elliptical orbits, called orbital eccentricity, change the Earths proximity to the sun over a period of about 400,000 years.
This influences climate, a phenomenon known as Milankovitch cycles (after the astronomer who first proposed it).
The climate fluctuations caused ice sheets to encroach or recede and lakes to fill or dry up.
This fact is key to the Geological Orrery.
Geologists Jim Hays, John Imbrie and Nicholas Shackleton confirmed Milankovitchs theory in 1976 in a seminal paper that proclaimed the cycles the pacemaker of Earths ice ages, and Olsen and other geologists set to work trying to better understand them.
By the late eighties, it seemed like if you could get the whole record in [sediment] core it would be an opportunity to see what the pattern was really like at the largest scale, Olsen says.
With Dennis Kent, a geologist at Lamont-Doherty and Rutgers, he began drilling sediment cores in the Newark Basin in northern New Jersey.
The Basin was formed when the supercontinent Pangaea began to tear apart during the Late Triassic, about 220 million years ago.
(Somewhat conveniently, the Lamont-Doherty Observatory is situated at the Basins northern end.)
In 1996, Olsen and Kent showed Milankovitch cycles were affecting climate in Pangaeas tropics during the Late Triassic.
They found evidence of several patterns: a 20,000-year precession cycle and 100,000-year, 400,000-year, and 2-million-year orbital eccentricity cycles.
The seed of an idea was planted: What if they could use the same approach to reveal ancient planetary dynamics?
Sediment cores drilled from the Newark and Hartford Rift Basins.
Credit: Paul E. Olsen At Columbia for an astrobiology meeting, Olsen strides quickly along one hallway after another, searching for the stairway that will take him to the top floor.
Hes running late.
Another scientist calls out to him from his office, and they greet one another excitedly, the meeting temporarily forgotten.
Do you know who this is?
says Olsen.
This is Jim Applegate, who designed the Digital Orrery!
The pair fall into a conversation about the precession of the equinoxes: this, apparently, is how planetary scientists catch up.
Applegate, an astrophysicist, was part of a team of scientists led by Gerald Jay Sussman that built a computer in the 1980s that could accurately predict planetary dynamics.
Sussman is a Brooklyn-born polymath who has studied artificial intelligence at MIT for half a century.
In 1983, he took a sabbatical and announced his intention to be an astronomer for a year, says Applegate, who was then a postdoc at Caltech.
He wanted to build a special-purpose computer to integrate the solar system for a billion years.
That computer became the Digital Orrery.
It included a separate processor for the sun and each of the planetary bodies.
In 1988, Sussman used it to reveal that Plutos orbit was irregular.
The following year, French astronomer Jacques Laskar, the PNAS papers second author, numerically determined that the Earths orbit was chaotic, too.
This has significant implications: say you measure the current position of the Earth in its journey around the sun, and youre off by just 15 metersor about 0.0000012 percent.
Laskar showed that even an error as slight as this precludes the ability to predict where the Earth will be in 100 million years.
We used the most precise model that we could make for planetary motion, taking into account all the planets, the minor planets, general relativity, everything, Laskar says.
But even by doing that, we will never be able to compute a solution beyond 60 million years.
There is no analytical solution to the solar system problem: you need empirical information.
As he continued to analyze the sediment cores from the Newark Basin, it became very obvious that there was a 1.75-million-year cycle, Olsen says.
This cycle was the result of the Earths slow gravitational waltz with Mars.
Laskar had predicted it, but nobody had ever seen evidence of the cycle in the rock record before.
By 1999, Olsen and Kent were able to show that the Earth-Mars cycle had shifted over time, and currently has a period of 2.4 million years.
I got quite a bit of pushback on that, Olsen says.
He is familiar with criticism.
His ideas are ambitious, and geologists often disagree on the fidelity of the rock record, which is riddled with unconformities, he says.
Possible unconformities include missing rock layers or changes in the rate at which sediment was deposited.
Changes in the sedimentation rate will distort how time is represented in the record, says Frits Hilgen, a geoscientist at Utrecht University who was not involved in the Orrery study.
This presents potential pitfalls for the Geological Orrery.
It relies on a complete sedimentary record: if there are invisible gaps in it, it will hopelessly throw off the timing, and the whole endeavor could collapse.
Plus, theres no way to know for sure if such gaps exist simply by looking at the rock record in any one place.
Olsen knew he had to come up with a way to corroborate the evidence in the Newark Basin for the orrery to have any chance at success.
So, we decided on checking by another coring experiment, he says.
That was the Colorado Plateau.
A vast desert crisscrossed with canyons and dotted with mountain ranges thrust up as a continental plate crumpled 250 million years ago, the Colorado Plateau straddles the Four Corners region of the Southwest and includes countless geological wonders.
The sediment cores Olsen and Kent extracted from it in 2013 were drilled in Arizona.
Kent, who is an expert in paleomagnetismthe branch of geophysics that studies the Earths ancient magnetic fieldsays the sediment there had the potential to corroborate the Newark Basin rock record.
Massive volcanoes pummeled the surrounding terrain millions of years ago.
Among this landscape were trace amounts of magnetic hematite particles that provided Olsen and Kent with a crucial corroborative clue.
The Earths magnetic field sporadically flips, Kent explains, and those reversals are recorded in the magnetic particles in the sediment.
They become almost like a bar code, he says.
The sequence is quite distinctive when we have a good time record.
If geologists can match that pattern to sedimentary records in widely dispersed places, they can confirm the rocks are of the same ageand importantly, determine whether the record in one location (for example, back in Newark) has any gaps.
When Olsen and Kent compared the Colorado Plateau cores to the Newark Basin cores, they matched.
* While on sabbatical in 2018ostensibly taken to write a book about dinosaur footprintsOlsen says he became interested in refining the core data, and he realized he could check the 100,000-year cycles against much longer ones.
It gets very granular, he says, but explains it anyway: every planet wobbles on its axis like a spinning top, a phenomenon called the precession of perihelion.
Each planets precession is slightly different20,000 years here, 25,700 years therebut together, the cycles could be used to check against the ones Olsen had found in the sediment cores.
When he compared the celestial wobble cycles and geological cycles, they were a near-perfect match.
Olsen pauses, savoring the punchline hes about to deliver.
Normally what I would have done in the past, is I would have declared victory!
he says.
But Olsen realized that he could go a step further and check the 100,000-year Milankovitch cycles against longer ones, like the Earth-Mars cycle.
He did so, and they matched.
That is basically impossible, unless the data are an accurate representation of the cycles, Olsen says.
Olsen sent the results to Laskar.
That was terrifying, he says.
After Laskar read it, they spoke.
Laskar thought the data was too good, says Olsen.
He suspected Olsen may have tuned his data using Laskars celestial predictions, but after Laskar checked the data himself, he got the same results.
The 20,000-year celestial cycles were effectively embedded in the 100,000-year Milankovitch cycles, which were themselves embedded in the Earth-Mars cycle.
The orrery worked.
Paul Olsen stands near a core drilling site in Arizonas Petrified Forest National Park.
Credit: Kevin Krajick Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory The Geological Orrery is currently a proof of concept: it reveals Earths climate history from 199 million to 223 million years ago, Olsen says, and derives planetary dynamics from that data.
This is the first time that there is a solid landmark in Earth history when what would otherwise be indeterminable astronomical parameters are known, says Whiteside.
In addition to planetary dynamics, the orrery could help reveal the timing of events such as mass extinctions or track changes in carbon dioxide concentrations over time and show how they interacted with Milankovitch cycles to affect climate.
And the orrery has just barely begun to plumb the available sediment records.
Amazingly, geology has provided us with three billion years worth of paleoclimate change records in the sediment record, says Linda Hinnov, a paleoclimatologist at George Mason University who was not involved in the study.
That data could provide the astronomical parameters to better predict where the climate is currently headed, she says.
Olsen says he does not consider the orrery to be a culmination of decades of work so much as the beginning of a new chapter in geophysical sciences.
I see it more or less as a continuation of a process, he says.
And I think that one can and should always project forward.
He emphasizes the last few words, his voice rising to underscore their importance.
The PNAS paper concludes by presenting an ambitious plan to travel even further back in time, beyond the last 300 million years.
That will require more drilling, and the scope of the project could ultimately outlive Olsens time at the observatory.
In geological time, his careerlike any human lifeis an eyeblink.
Saddled with that ephemerality, making sense of hundreds of millions of years of chaotic planetary dynamics seems daunting.
To Olsen, its exhilarating.
The most exciting part of this is theres nothing you can do with modern astronomy or math that can tell you what planetary motions were actually like hundreds of millions of years ago, Olsen says.
But the sedimentary records are there, waiting to reveal their secrets.
*Editor's Note (4/10/19): This paragraph was edited after posting.
It originally referred to bentonite and zircon crystals providing the evidence and the magnetic field reversals being recorded in zircon crystals.
When Guatemalas Volcn de Fuego erupted in June 2018, it sent a billowing hot cloud of gas, ash and rock careening down the slope of the mountain.
In the many smartphone videos of the eruption, the rush of debris often looks reassuringly distantuntil suddenly its not.
How such pyroclastic flows, as they are called, can travel so quickly has long baffled volcanologists and disaster planners alike, leaving communities in volcanically active areas at risk.
Now, though, a new study offers an explanation: forces within the flows create a cushion of air, allowing massive amounts of hot rock to slide like a puck on an air hockey table.
Its a bit like the flow is surfing on something extremely low-friction, says Gert Lube, a volcanologist at Massey University in New Zealand who led the research.
DIY Volcano Pyroclastic flowswhich can hurtle scalding gases, rock and ash at more than 50 miles per hourand closely related mudflows called lahars are responsible for half of the deaths caused by volcanoes.
They occur abruptly, giving little warning, and people in harms way simply dont expect a material made up of high-friction rock particles to flow as smoothly and quickly as water.
Credit: Melissa Thomas Baum; Sources: Generation of air lubrication within pyroclastic density currents, by Gert Lube, et al., and Travel on thin air, by Alain Burgisser in Nature Geoscience.
Vol.
12 No.
4; April 8, 2019 Last Junes Volcn de Fuego eruption illustrates the danger of misunderstanding a pyroclastic flow.
The hot avalanche completely inundated the village of San Miguel Los Lotes, killing at least 200 people.
Before the eruption, the town was not thought to be at high risk of a direct hit because it was relatively far from the main potential channel for a pyroclastic flow, says Rudiger Escobar Wolf, a volcanologist at Michigan Technological University who was not involved in Lubes research.
Ive worked at the volcano for many years, and I was surprised, he says.
Escobar Wolf and other hazard researchers use models to try to predict where and how far flows will go in order to map out danger areas.
But they cannot measure the physics inside the flows directly, given that a rushing wave of volcanic rock and ash tends to destroy scientific instruments in its path.
And small-scale laboratory experiments do not mimic the flows well.
That means the existing models have been far from perfect, leaving communities near volcanoes potentially unprepared.
Lube and his team decided to see if scaling up their experiments gave them a better window into what was going on.
They used a system akin to a log flume ride that they call PELEshort for pyroclastic flow eruption large-scale experiment.
The flume is 12 meters long and half a meter wide.
Using a hopper suspended over the flume, the team can drop up to 1,300 kilograms of heated volcanic material down the slope while instruments measure pressure and temperature.
The Fundamentals of Flow The researchers used material that erupted in the year 232 A.D. from New Zealands Taupo volcano, which spread rich sources of pumice and ash conveniently a few hours drive from Massey University.
They heated the mixture to temperatures ranging from 15 to 130 degrees Celsius.
As they tracked the flows down the flume, they noticed that regardless of temperature the material quickly separated into two layers: one a diffuse ash cloud up to 4.5 meters tall and the other a dense base layer 0.8 meter thick.
That base layer held the secret of the pyroclastic flows speed.
The rapid movement of the volcanic particles creates a strong shear force at the bottom of the layer, which pushes some particles in one direction and others in the parallel but opposite direction, Lube says.
The shear results in a zone of low pressure that sucks gases in instead of letting them escape up and out of the flow.
This makes for a low-friction slick of gases at the bottom of the pyroclastic flow clouda layer that lets the flow really flow.
Lube and his colleagues plugged their experimental results into a computer model of a pyroclastic flow and found that this friction-reducing mechanism also occurs at real-world scales and temperatures of 400 degrees Celsius.
That seems to give us very good confidence that it will occur in pretty much every volcanic flow situation on Earth, Lube says.
The findings, published Monday in Nature Geoscience, are the first of their kind, says Alain Burgisser, who wrote a commentary published alongside the study.
The shear that drives the lubrication process showed up only because of the relatively large scale of the experiment, which explains why the air cushion was unnoticed until now, Burgisser says.
Lube is now collaborating with modeling researchers to add these new physics to simulations of pyroclastic flows around the world, so they can compare the results to the actual paths taken by flows in historical eruptions.
Local details will matter, Escobar Wolf says.
The Taupo ash is different from that found at Volcn de Fuego, for example, and temperatures of real-world pyroclastic flowswhich might also affect their behaviorcan vary between 200 and 700 degrees C. Nevertheless, the information in the paper could prove very useful for modeling future volcanic hazards.
This experiment may not cover the whole spectrum, Escobar Wolf says, but it tells us something fundamental.
Gravitational wavesthe ghostly ripples in spacetime first predicted by Einstein and finally detected a century later by advanced observatorieshave sparked a revolution in astrophysics, revealing the otherwise-hidden details of merging black holes and neutron stars.
Now, scientists have used these waves to open another new window on the universe, providing new constraints on neutron stars' exact shapes.
The result will aid researchers in their ongoing quest to understand the inner workings of these exotic objects.
So far, 11 gravitational-wave events have been detected by the LIGO (["Advanced" just came on line April 2, right?
So here it should just be LIGO, yeh?
]Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory) interferometers in Washington and Louisiana and the Virgo gravitational-wave observatory in Italy.
Of these events, 10 came from mergers of binary black holes, and one from the merger of two neutron stars.
In all cases, the form of the waves matched the predictions of Einstein's theory of general relativity.
For the binary black hole events, the passing waves lasted less than a second; for the merging neutron stars, the emissions occurred for about 100 seconds.
But such rapid pulses aren't the only types of gravitational waves that could be streaming through the universe.
In particular, solitary neutron stars might be emitting detectable gravitational waves as they spinsignals that could reveal important new details of the stars' topography and internal composition.
Neutron stars are stellar corpses, cinders left behind when giant stars explode as supernovae.
The force of such explosions compresses the expiring star's core, transforming it into an ultradense ball of neutrons slightly more massive then our sun but squeezed into a diameter of merely 20 kilometers or so.
Both theoretical calculations and observational evidence suggest the physical extremes of neutron stars' origins make them perhaps the most ideally spherical macroscale objects in existence, exhibiting only the most minuscule deviations from perfection.
Yet even those small imperfections can have major consequencesa slight mountain, just a few centimeters high on the surface, could form because of cracks in the star's crystalline crust or from the accretion of material at the star's magnetic poles, which are not necessarily the same as its axis of rotation.
In such cases, the neutron star's deviation from sphericity would depend on its equation of statea metric for the relation among the star's radius, mass and superstrong magnetic field.
But one really expects any significant gravitational [waves] to come from a large-scale, [asymmetric] deformation of the star, not a small bump or mountain, says Nathan Johnson-McDaniel of the University of Cambridge, a member of the LIGO Scientific Collaboration who studies neutron stars.
Some slight asymmetry is also expected simply because of a neutron star's spin, akin to the Earth's equatorial bulge from the centrifugal force pushing away from the axis.
(Some neutron stars spin so fast that a point on their surface could be moving at a tenth the speed of light.)
However it might arise, any wobble would constantly create gravitational waves, which physicists call continuous gravitational waves.
They would register as about 100 times smaller than the gravitational waves seen so far from mergers, which themselves are miniscule deviations from flat spacetime of about one part in a billion trillion (10[SUPERSCRIPT -21]).
In LIGO's second observing run, lasting from November 2016 to August 2017, the interferometers searched the entire sky for continuous gravitational waves.
Next, LIGO team members sifted all signals from about four months' worth of detector time, filtering out false positives representing noise from terrestrial hiccups such as tiny earthquakes or even passing trucks.
The data analysis took more than 30 million CPU-hoursmore than three millennia in total.
The results of this exhaustive search appeared in an online preprint in March.
Using improved data-sifting algorithms, the study's authors (who number more than 1,000) placed new, independent upper limits on neutron star ellipticitya measure of how far the star deviates from a perfect sphere.
The gist of their analysis is that no neutron stars within about 30,000 light-years of Earth appear to harbor deviations from perfect sphericity greater than about one part per millionany mountains that exist on these exotic objects must be exceedingly minute molehills, indeed.
But Nils Andersson, an applied mathematician at the University of Southampton who is not part of the LIGO collaboration, says the study needs to be put in context.
Studies of known pulsarsfast-spinning neutron stars that emit lighthouselike beams of radiationhave already placed limits on ellipticity about 1,000 times better than those from this study, he says.
Even so, there may be a population of neutron stars that do not [detectably] radiate electromagneticallythey would be too dim, perhaps because they have weak magnetic fields.
The emission of continuous gravitational waves from such hypothetical stars, Andersson says, may be the only way astronomers will ever see them.
This is a difficult question, involving how strain develops in the star's elastic crust and how the internal magnetic field evolves .
We don't know how to address it.
Even though this latest search failed to find any continuous gravitational waves, the knowledge gained from sifting through the second observation run's data could reduce the amount of very expensive computer time required for similar searches in future data sets.
The improvement in sensitivity could then allow successful peeks into a largely unexamined territory.
I'm excited about this and other promising all-sky searches for gravitational waves, says Charles Horowitz of Indiana University Bloomington, who is not a member of the LIGO or Virgo collaborations.
The gravitational-wave sky is largely unknown, and it could contain real surprises that might be extraordinary discoveries.
Advanced LIGO's[Okay?
It looks like they're using the "Advanced" for the third run] third observing period began in April, and will be augmented again by an improved Virgo.
This latest observing run will continue for one year, all with a 40 percent boost to instrumental sensitivity, allowing for searches for binary black hole mergers out to about 300 million light-years.
Besides the expectation of more binary mergers, the improvement in sensitivity and longer run time will also allow a deeper search for continuous waves.
I'm optimistic that continuous gravitational waves from rotating neutron stars will eventually be found, Horowitz says, and this will provide important information on both.
One day after nursing her six-month-old baby, Colleen Abel developed an itchy red rash on her right breast.
The cause was a mystery.
Abel speculated that scratches left by her son while he fed might have gotten infected, or that bedbugs might have bitten her.
The 36-year-old writer from Illinois opened her laptop and investigated her symptoms on Google.
What she found shocked her.
The first result blared inflammatory breast cancer, and that scared me out of my mind, Abel says.
Other diagnoses such as dermatitis were far more likely, but Abel was convinced that a fast-growing malignancy was in her body.
Before long, she was spending three to four hours every day reading about breast cancer on the internet.
Abel was in the throes of cyberchondriaa technology-enabled malady that drives people to repeatedly query their symptoms on search engines.
Nearly one in three people among the millions who seek health information online report feeling more anxious afterwards.
Yet individuals with cyberchondria paradoxically keep searching, even as their distress continues to grow.
The term cyberchondria was coined by the media nearly 20 years ago as a play on the much older medical term hypochondria, whose sufferers are convinced they are sick with an illness they do not really have.
Because cyberchondria has never been added to the American Psychiatric Associations list of diagnosable mental disorders, reliable estimates of the number of people who have it are not available.
But what is known, says Eoin McElroy, a psychologist at University College London, is that cyberchondria has the potential to interrupt many aspects of your life.
Studies have linked it to depression, and its sufferers are prone to either see their doctors too often, or not enough for fear of what they might hear.
Now scientists are starting to define cyberchondria and untangle its psychological roots.
These are early days, but researchers are revealing fresh insights into what drives people to engage in a behavior that leads mostly to unhappiness.
A key finding is that the relentless searching, more than anything else, is for assurances of personal safetywhich the internet by its very nature is unable to provide.
THINKING ABOUT THINKING Thomas Fergus, a professor of psychology at Baylor University, is a pioneering investigator in assurance-seeking behavior.
He links cyberchondria to a dysfunctional web of metacognitive beliefs, which are really just thoughts about thinking.
Everyone has these sorts of belief systems.
For instance, it is normal to believe that ruminating over a challenging problem will lead to a well-considered outcome.
But in cyberchondria, metacognitive beliefs morph into a mental trap that chains people to online health content.
Together with his collaborator, Marcantonio Spada, an academic psychologist at London South Bank University, Fergus has shown that metacognitive beliefs in cyberchondria overlap to some degree with those of other anxiety disorders that have longer diagnostic histories.
People with health anxiety, for instance, worry irrationally about having a serious medical problem, and hold maladjusted views about the role worry plays in maintaining their emotional and physical well-being.
These cycling beliefs can either be positive (such as: worrying about a medical problem will help me prepare before it is too late) or negative (my worry is getting out of control and it is making me sick).
Even after their worries subside, people with health anxiety will eventually begin worrying that they have not worried enough about their medical state, thus triggering the cycle anew.
It is these same sorts of dysfunctional belief systems, Fergus says, that send people with cyberchondria back for long sessions at the computer.
Fergus and Spada published research in 2018 that further links cyberchondria with features of obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD).
People with OCD believe that performing a ritualistic behavior will ease their anxiety, and they engage in that ritual until they hit a predetermined threshold or stopping point.
Fergus and Spada discovered that similar metacognitive beliefs propel online search habits in cyberchondria.
Individuals search ritualistically for health information to dispel their anxiety, and will only stop when they feel the search has sufficiently reduced the uncertainties they have about the state of their health.
What theyre really looking for is reassurance that nothing bad is going to happen, Fergus says.
Unfortunately, online health content is too diverse and conflicting to deliver the certainty.
So, sufferers keep looking.
Knowing who to trust online amounts to little more than a guessing game.
Abel says the websites sparking her initial fears of inflammatory breast cancer appeared authoritative.
The more I learned, the more I found reasons to believe my worst-case scenario was correct, she explains.
I ignored the information that should have reassured mesuch as the rarity of the diseaseand focused instead on what confirmed my suspicions.
ESCAPING THE TRAP Current treatments for cyberchondria range from antidepressants to talk therapy and mindfulness training, although the relative benefits of one over another are unclear.
According to Robin Bailey, a psychologist at Liverpool John Moores University, in the U.K., the condition has to be more fully defined before clinical studies can get underway.
But appropriate therapies, Bailey says, could draw from the same principles used in treating other anxiety disorders.
Health anxiety, for instance, has traditionally been treated with cognitive behavioral therapies that encourage people to question the evidence leading them to believe they have a dangerous medical problem.
Cognitive behavioral therapy for health anxiety can last 30 weekly sessions or more, according to Bailey.
Alternatively, therapists can try metacognitive techniques that shift the focus away from a perceived health threat to the worry that surrounds it.
Individuals are encouraged to observe thoughts about illness or injury without letting them intrude emotionally.
Or they might postpone their health worries until a scheduled time of day.
Applied in a cyberchondria context, Bailey says, metacognitive approaches would encourage people to question the psychological value of going online to relieve their anxiety, when evidence from their own experience shows it has the opposite effect.
Abel found a way out.
After two months spent in chatrooms devoted to inflammatory breast cancer, too scared to go to an urgent care clinic, Abel finally went to a primary care doctor who told her she did not have cancer.
Instead, she had thrusha benign condition that cleared up fast with antifungal treatment.
Remarkably, thrush had never appeared on any of her Google searches, an omission that Abel says reflects the internets deficiency as a tool for self-diagnosis.
Abel admits to a lifelong battle with anxiety, and says she is still prone to bouts of cyberchondria, which she knows can wreak more havoc on her life than any of the health ailments that prompt it.
You shouldnt be embarrassed to show up at the doctor once in a while if youre worried, she says.
Thats normal.
And if you are in the throes of anxiety or panic, you need a doctor for that too.
Dont be afraid to reach out for mental or physical health.
Never be ashamed of that.
When the majority of stars reach the end of their life, they make their own funeral pyre, throwing off most of their remaining gas in a glorious last display of their immense power and leaving behind a dense, cinderlike core known as a white dwarf.
But what becomes of any planets orbiting such a star?
This question has been difficult to answer, but now scientists say they have detected the suspected remnant of a white dwarf world, a first-of-its-kind discovery that could offer fascinating insights into planetary systems dying days across the universe.
In a paper published today in Science, a team led by Christopher Manser of the University of Warwick in England reports unprecedented observations of a white dwarf slightly larger than Earth but containing almost the mass of the sun.
Called SDSS J1228+1040, the star is located about 410 light-years away, and it is more specifically known as a polluted white dwarf, owing to the heavy elements astronomers can detect raining down onto its surface.
That material is believed to originate from a disk of gas that surrounds the object.
And within that disk, the papers authors say, they have found a planets ghostly remains.
Its like the iron core left behind by a larger body thats been ripped apart, Manser says.
The crust and mantle have come off this body.
Were left with this iron core orbiting around that has a high internal strength holding it together, not just gravity.
The white dwarfs three-million-kilometer-wide debris disk was first discovered more than 15 years ago, making the star one of fewer than a dozen polluted white dwarfs known to be surrounded by disks.
When a star of less than about eight solar masses exhausts its hydrogen fuel, it expels its outer layers, engulfing any close-in planets in the process.
Some of these worlds, it is thought, might then be ripped apart, after which their shredded remains gather into such a disk.
And although more than 4,000 exoplanets have been discovered to date, scientists have only once before seen smoking-gun evidence of this process: the remains of a planet in a disk around the white dwarf WD 1145+017, which was closely studied in 2015.
Whereas those planetary remnants orbit around WD 1145+017 in 4.5 hours, the heavy-metal core circling SDSS J1228+1040 completes a revolution in less than half of that time.
The new studys authors detected the stars dense companion using the 10.4-meter Gran Telescopio Canarias (GTC) on the Canary Islands in two separating observing periods in April 2017 and in April and May 2018, respectively.
By splitting up the white dwarfs emitted light into its constituent wavelengthsmuch as a prism splits white light into a rainbowthe team detected the disk and recorded shifts in its color that corresponded to its orbital motion.
Generally, this method is used to observe systems such as SDSS J1228 over long periods of years, but by studying this white dwarf over the course of several hours, the team discerned a clump of material within the disk that exhibited a shift that was entirely its own.
The shifts strength suggested its source was a solid object some 600 kilometers acrossa suspected planetary core, with a density between 7.7 and 39 grams per cubic centimeter, comparable to the pure iron found within Earths core.
* The density of the piece of rock is consistent with what we think the cores of planets [are], says Luca Fossati of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, who was not involved in the paper.
Thats a big thing.
It essentially confirms the idea we have that these disks of dust and debris that orbit around some of the white dwarfs are [the remains of] ancient planets.
The shift also indicated that the clump orbits at just a half-million kilometers from the staran extremely close distance at which larger, less dense objects would be stretched and torn apart by the white dwarfs intense gravitational field.
This messy disassembly, which, at its most extreme, is dubbed spaghettification by astrophysicists, is the typical fate of anything falling into a black hole.
But around the white dwarf, where gravity is not as extreme, a small, dense heavy-metal planetary core could survive.
If you have a small enough object, its easier to resist spaghettification, says Andrew Vanderburg of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, who was also not involved in the paper.
What [the researchers] found here is that this planet is orbiting so close to its star that it must be held together by material strength.
With a specific orbital period of 123 minutes, this core would set a new record for the fastest planetary object orbiting a star; the previous record was the exoplanet KOI 1843.03, which completes an orbit in 4.25 hours.
The bizarre system also provides a one-of-a-kind scientific opportunity to scrutinize the exposed core of an exoplanet, even though astronomers presently lack any sufficiently large telescope to directly see the core.
Perhaps, however, similar objects await discovery around other white dwarfs.
Whether studying them singly or in multitudes, such heavy-metal worlds may offer grim previews of our own solar systems future, when our suns fuel runs out some five billion years hence.
Its really exciting, because this is sort of the missing piece, if you like, [of white dwarf planetary systems], says Sarah Casewell of the University of Leicester in England, who was not involved in the research.
We know big things can survive, and we know tiny things get destroyed.
This is quite a sizable rocky object that has survived.
*Editors Note (4/9/19): This sentence was edited after posting.
It had incorrectly given the figures in grams per cubic meter.
The toxic effects of leaddevelopmental delays, organ damage, even deathare well-known.
But millions of Americans still rely on lead pipes to deliver drinking water.
In an attempt to make them safer, researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, are working on a new technology that uses electrical current to rapidly build a protective layer on the insides of the pipes.
In early tests they reduced the amount of the toxic metal entering water, but other scientists are skeptical of the methods potential as a long-term solution.
Civil and environmental engineer Ashok Gadgil took on the project with his graduate student, Gabriel Lobo, after researchers found dangerous lead levels in the tap water for hundreds of homes in Flint, Mich.
The crisis began shortly after the city started drawing water from the Flint River in 2014.
That changed the water supply in two critical ways.
The first was that [the Flint River water] was more corrosive than the water they were getting from Detroit prior to the switch, says Terese Olson, a civil and environmental engineer at the University of Michigan who is not part of Gadgils study.
The second problem is they didnt add corrosion inhibitors, specifically phosphates, that were added to the Detroit water.
These phosphates are often mixed with water in cities that still use lead service pipes, which connect buildings to a water main.
Over several months the chemicals bind to dissolved lead and form a solid layer of lead phosphate crystal on the pipe walls.
This coating, called scale, separates the water from the lead in the pipes themselves, and can prevent more of the metal from dissolving into the drinking supply.
Researchers think the corrosive Flint River water, without the protective influence of phosphates, may have eaten away the scale on local lead pipesand that pieces of the broken-down scale, along with newly exposed lead metal, then polluted Flints drinking water.
A 2016 study from the National Resource Defense Council indicates 17 million people around the United States now face a similar risk.
Protective scale can be rebuilt by adding phosphates to the water, but the buildup process can take months or years.
Gadgil and Lobo, however, say they have found a way to do it in a matter of hours.
Their method involves running electricity through a wire exposed to the phosphate-treated water within a pipe, and also through the pipe itself, giving the pipe a positive charge and the wire a negative one.
This makes the pipe rapidly shed positively charged lead ions into the water, where they react with negatively charged phosphate ions to form lead-phosphate scale.
As a result, scale accumulates on the pipe wall much more quickly than it would under normal circumstances.
Lobo says this approach causes a light but visible scale to form after about two hours.
It looks like a paper-thin white lining on the inside walls of the test pipes, and is apparently enough to slash the amount of lead getting into the water.
It decreases the lead leaching rate by like 99 percent, Lobo says.
But it wont be enough to comply with the lead rule, if the pipe is bare to start.
Federal rules set acceptable lead levels in water at less than 15 parts per billion (though most scientists agree that no amount of lead is safe).
After roughly eight hours, water inside Lobos treated test pipes had around 100 parts per billion.
Still, Lobo thinks he can improve the technology to lower lead levels further.
The other thing you need to consider is that actual lead pipes have pre-existing scale, he notes.
Its just small areas that become unprotected.
The treatment will cover up those areas.
In a system like Flintsone that already has years of built-up scale, but recently suffered damageLobos technique might be able to bring lead back to safe levels.
But first, it will require more testing.
The next part of the experiment is to try actual pipes in actual water systems, Lobo says.
He presented the research at this weeks American Chemical Society Spring 2019 National Meeting & Exposition.
Not everyone is convinced the technology holds a great deal of promise.
There are several issues I see with this, Olson says.
The biggest is that lead phosphate scale is not fully protective.
In most cases, lead particles are [still] getting into the water, she says, adding that the only way to protect drinking water from lead contamination is replacing lead pipes, period.
The new technique is not a perfect fix at all.
If you want the lead out, youve got to get the source out.
Lobo agrees it is best to replace lead pipesbut says this is not always possible.
Replacing all of them is economically infeasible, he says.
It costs something like $150 to $300 per meter of pipe, and some cities like Chicago have 80 percent of their water systems based on lead.
It will take time to replace lead pipes, and Lobo thinks the new technology might offer a temporary stopgap to reduce contamination.
But Olson remains unconvinced.
Even if it is faster and cheaper than full pipe replacement, Gadgil and Lobos procedure still takes time and money, she points out.
Wouldn't a homeowner rather achieve immediate temporary protection with no fuss, she asks, by installing a tap water filter for 20 dollars?
Despite a multi-billion-dollar skin care industry and plenty of marketing claims, nothing exists that can prevent our skin from turning into tissue paper as we ageexcept, perhaps, religiously wearing sunscreen.
Accumulated damage from UV radiation and other age-related stressors drains the skins pool of renewal cellsor stem cellsand there is no way to stop or slow this process.
But hope for skincare junkies is on the horizon.
A study published April 3 in Nature provides new insight into how stem cell loss occurs and even identifies two chemicals that may be able to prevent it.
The research, led by Emi Nishimura, a professor of stem cell biology at Tokyo Medical and Dental University in Japan, revealed that aging and UV exposure deplete stem cells of a crucial collagen protein.
Skin aficionados may recognize collagen as a key player in maintaining strong, youthful, elastic skin.
The weakened stem cells no longer divide normally, and are ultimately forced to turn into adult skin cells.
Over time, so many stem cells become damaged that there arent enough healthy ones to replace them.
I think its a beautiful study, says David Fisher, a professor of dermatology at Harvard Medical School who was not involved in the research.
I think its a very elegant analysis, but also it has some very practical mechanistic insights into how this is happening, and even potentially actionable ones to promote youthfulness.
Our skin is divided into two sections: the epidermis on top and the dermis underneath.
The epidermis is what we conventionally think of as our skin and is made up of many layers of cells, while the dermis consists of connective tissue, hair follicles, blood vessels, and sweat glands.
As part of normal skin health, the top layer of the epidermis is constantly being sloughed off and replaced from a self-replenishing pool of stem cells that hangs out on the bottom (or basal) layer.
These stem cells have roots that anchor them to a thin piece of tissue called the basement membrane that connects the epidermis and the dermis.
The tether to the basement membrane is essential for maintaining a cells steminess"its ability to replicate and mature into another type of cell.
Most of the time, the stem cells in the epidermis divide horizontally, cloning themselves and adding to the renewal pool.
Sometimes, though, they divide vertically, and the new cell starts to mature into an adult skin cell, which is gradually pushed up through the layers of the epidermis.
This type of cell turnoverreplacing older cells at the top of the epidermis with younger cells from the bottomexplains how cuts heal and skin stays young looking.
As people age, however, the pool of stem cells becomes depleted and cell turnover slows, eventually leaving people with thin, fragile skin.
The ultimate question, which [the study is] trying to address, is why are there fewer cells?
Why do we lose stem cells as we get older?
says Terry Lechler, an associate professor of dermatology at Duke University who was not involved in the research.
I think that's the real crux and the really interesting question.
The study suggests that the stem cells that divide vertically do so because they are damaged through regular aging and the normal cell turnover process, as well as exposure to UV light or other types of toxins.
And not only does the new adult cell start its journey through the epidermis, the original stem cell also gets pushed off of the basal layer, forcing it to mature.
This is because the damaged stem cells roots have become weakened, so it can no longer sufficiently anchor to the basement membrane.
The researchers describe this step as a kind of competition, the neighboring healthy stem cells banding together and forcing the weak stem cell off of the island.
It appears that this is due to a quality-control mechanism whereby a skin stem cell that gets damaged is basically purged from the skin, says James DeGregori, a professor of biochemistry at the University of Colorado Denver who wrote a commentary article to accompany the paper.
You could almost imagine all of these stem cells are kind of jostling for position, and if you're really gripping that basement membrane, you're going to do better.
At first this competition is beneficial, ridding the skin of malfunctioning cells or even cancer-causing mutations.
However, at a certain point too many stem cells become damaged and they begin to outnumber the healthy ones.
When this happens, the skin can no longer effectively rejuvenate itself or respond to injury.
Stem cell competition between epidermal stem cells sustains skin youthfulness, but the decline of the competition ends up with skin aging, Nishimura explains.
The linchpin in this process is collagen 17, a specific type of collagen protein that is critical for rooting the stem cell to the basement membrane.
As stem cells become damaged, they lose precious amounts of collagen 17.
The more protein they lose, the weaker their bond to the basement membrane, until eventually they are forced out by neighboring healthy cells.
The good news is that there may be a way to increase or preserve levels of collagen 17 in stem cells, staving off this process of skin aging.
Nishimura showed that two experimental chemicals, Y27632 and apocynin, applied topically can increase collagen 17 levels in cells and even promote wound healing.
This does not mean you should purchase the next skin care product you see that has collagen or stem cells on the labelthere is no evidence that anything on the market affects this pathway.
But it does suggest a scientifically-backed rejuvenating cream could be on the horizon.
Cats are notorious for their indifference to humans: Almost any owner will testify to how readily these animals ignore us when we call them.
But according to a study published Thursday in Scientific Reports, domestic cats do recognize their own nameseven if they walk away when they hear them.
Atsuko Saito, a behavioral scientist at Sophia University in Tokyo, previously showed that cats can recognize their owners voices.
In her latest study she narrowed this down, investigating whether they respond to hearing their names.
The study included 78 cats from Japanese households and a cat caf.
(Such cafs, where patrons can interact with felines, are popular in Tokyo and have started to catch on in London and New York.)
During their experiments Saito and her colleagues used what behavioral psychologists call the habituation-dishabituation method.
This involves repeatedly exposing a subject to a stimulus (in this case a spoken word) until the subject no longer displays any reaction.
Then the subject is presented with a test stimulus (in this case, its name), and researchers observe whether it reacts.
This step helps rule out responses to random stimuli.
For the new study, the scientists first had cat owners repeatedly say four words that were similar to their cats names, until the cats habituated to those words.
Next the owners said the actual names, and the researchers looked at whether individual cats (when living among other cats) appeared able to distinguish their monikers.
The cats had more pronounced responses to their own namesmoving their ears, heads or tails, or meowingthan to similar words or other cats names.
Then the researchers had people unfamiliar to the cats speak the names, to test whether the cats still recognized them.
Although their responses were less prominent than when their owners called them, they still appeared to recognize their names after being habituated to other words.
This new study clearly shows that many cats react to their own names when spoken by their owners, says biologist John Bradshaw, who studies human-animal interactions at the University of Bristols Anthrozoology Institute and was not involved in the new study.
But Bradshaw says he is less convinced cats can recognize their names when spoken by someone unfamiliar.
I think that its entirely possible that some cats are able to generalize between one human voice and another, but Id like to see more trials before Id say that the evidence is compelling, he says.
Saito says she thinks feline pets learn to recognize their names because of what is in it for them.
I think cats associated their names with some rewards or punishments, she saysadding that she thinks it is unlikely the cats understand their names are attached to them.
There is no evidence that cats have the ability to recognize themselves, like us, she explains.
So, the recognition about their name is different from ours.
Still, she says, it may be possible to teach cats to recognize other words.
Whether that could allow humans to train cats to respond to commandsas dogs readily dois another matter.
Cats are just as good as dogs at learning, Bradshaw says.
Theyre just not as keen to show their owners what theyve learned.
Most cat owners would probably agree.
Editors Note (4/11/19): This article has been updated to reflect Atsuko Saitos current affiliation.
Highland Parks streetlights were torn out in 2011 because the predominantly black Detroit suburb couldnt pay its electricity bill after the 2008 economic downturn.
Today street lamps once again cast reassuring pools of lightand this time they are cheaper, because they harvest the energy of the sun.
Highland Park offers an example of what environmental justice advocates hope to do more of to bring affordable, clean energy to communities of color.
Plummeting costs have helped solar power rapidly expand in the past decade, with U.S. residential installation growing by more than 50 percent each year between 2010 and 2016.
But access to this energy has not been equitableand not just because up-front installation costs can price out people with lower incomes.
A new study indicates that even when income is taken out of the equation, communities of color have installed fewer rooftop solar facilities than predominantly white communities.
The data are among the first to show such an inequality in access to clean energy, a situation advocates have been reporting anecdotally for years.
The results affirm trends in disparity in adoption that are well known to practitioners, but demonstrate their existence in a robust way, says Ben Sigrin, an energy systems modeling engineer at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, Colorado, who was not involved in the study.
Reasons for the disparity remain unclear, but the latest findings suggest programs aimed at boosting solar power in disadvantaged communities need to consider more than just income levels.
Some activists and nonprofit organizations are already moving in this direction.
For example, the civil rights group NAACPinspired partly by local activists who formed a group called Soulardarity, which helped bring Highland Park its solar street lampslaunched a year-long 2018 Solar Equity Initiative aimed at improving solar energy access to marginalized communities, including racial and ethnic minorities.
To us [energy] is just another dimension of social justice challenges, says Jacqueline Patterson, director of the NAACPs Environmental and Climate Justice Program.
With clean energy, not only is it often a more affordable way of accessing energy, but it also puts us in control of our energy.
Solar Disparities Researchers at the University of California, Berkeley saw a golden opportunity to study imbalances in solar power deployment through their access to data from Googles Project Sunroofan initiative that maps solar rooftop panels seen in satellite imagesand demographic data from the U.S. Census.
They had an inkling of possible racial and ethnic disparities but initially thought other socioeconomic factors could help explain many of them.
Yet their study results, published in January in Nature Sustainability,showed that even when controlling for income levels, neighborhoods with either black or Hispanic majority populations have installed fewer rooftop solar panels than neighborhoods with no clear racial or ethnic majority.
White-majority neighborhoods, in stark contrast, have more rooftop solar installations than those without a clear majority.
The researchers say these differences cannot be completely explained by either household income or home ownership levels (homeowners are more likely than renters to invest in permanent solar panels).
I was not surprised to see that race and ethnicity were important, but once we controlled for income I thought the effect would be reduced significantly, says Daniel Kammen, director of the Renewable and Appropriate Energy Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley and a co-author on the study.
But alas, it was not.
The study did not uncover the root of why rooftop solar panels are typically sparser in black and Hispanic neighborhoods.
But the findings mesh with reports from industry and nongovernmental organizations, which have previously shown that a lack of diversity in the environmental and solar-power fields has hindered efforts to spread solar powers benefits.
Causal factors may connect to the well-documented historical pattern of racial discrimination that has left many minority neighborhoods in the U.S. stuck with problems like insufficient public infrastructure and predatory home loans.
The disparity in rooftop solar is the same disparity as in everything else, says Naomi Davis, founder and president of the Chicago-based nonprofit organization Blacks in Green.
The study also adds to the body of research showing that black and Hispanic Americans bear the brunt of the costs of fossil fuel use.
For one thing, they are exposed to higher levels of air pollution than white Americansregardless of income levels.
There are more direct economic effects as well.
This paper does highlight an energy injustice, says Deborah Sunter, assistant professor of mechanical engineering at Tufts University in Medford, Mass.
and co-author of the rooftop solar study, because there are certain communities that are missing out on the financial benefits that come with having rooftop solar: the tax incentives, the rebates, the profit from net metering.
(The latter refers to credits received in exchange for putting excess solar power into the electricity grid.)
Shifting Strategies There is already a movement among community activists, researchers and politicians to promote social justice in policies designed to support clean energy and fight climate change.
There is tons of leadership in communities of color that is not seen or acknowledged, and its growing, says Julian Foley, vice president of communications at Grid Alternatives, a nonprofit organization based in Oakland, Calif. that helps disadvantaged communities install solar projects.
The studys results could help fine-tune such efforts by underlining the need to shift strategies from focusing only on low-income communitiessince that approach may not catch neighborhoods where ethnic minorities predominate.
Kammen says policymakers could, for example, recognize how credit scores have been used to discriminate in home loans on the basis of raceand could apply positive pressure by offering bonuses to loan seekers who add rooftop solar panels or other energy-efficiency measures.
Officials also need to be aware of how small changes in policy can have indirect but significant impacts on programs aimed at bolstering solar power in disadvantaged communities.
For example, the Bishop Paiute Tribe has used both federal energy grants and California state funding for rooftop solar projects, which can slash monthly utility bills by up to 90 percent.
But starting in 2020, new California rules that define disadvantaged communities according to U.S. Census tracts could make the tribe ineligible for such state funding, despite being a low-income community.
A lot of tribes are smaller than census tracts, so the income base gets diluted by surrounding communities under the new rules, says Brian Adkins, environmental director at the Bishop Paiute Tribe Environmental Management Office.
The researchers behind the new study also hope it can encourage leaders to support environmental justice for historically disadvantaged communitiesand to recognize more diverse voices on such matters.
The environmental movement in the United States has an overwhelming amount of white leadership, and even if many of those groups are doing great things, that doesn't speak towards a very inclusive effort, Kammen says.
The advocacy work done by Davis, the Chicago nonprofit leader, has helped shape state legislation aimed at increasing renewable energy in Illinois.
She has also secured funding for solar job training and has set up a social enterprise program in hopes of establishing a solar panel assembly plant in Chicagos predominantly black Woodlawn neighborhood by 2021.
Davis sees solar power as just one small piece of a bigger holistic approach to building sustainable neighborhoods, but she wants to make sure black communities are not left out of the economic transition to clean energy in the U.S.
Step back and create partnerships where money flows directly to frontline environmental justice community-based organizations, Davis says.
And then depend on those organizations to write the story.
Massive objects bend and warp spacetime, a phenomenon Albert Einstein asserted in his general theory of relativity.
When two such objectssuch as black holes or neutron starsmerge, the collision generates subtle spacetime ripples called gravitational waves.
Although his theory predicted them, Einstein remained skeptical that gravitational waves actually existed or could ever be observed.
Now, however, they are routinely detected by extremely sensitive instruments, such as the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO), a continent-spanning experiment with listening stations in Hanford, Wash., and Livingston, La.
Chad Hanna, an astrophysicist at Pennsylvania State University, studies gravitational waves with LIGO, detecting them in close to real time as they wash over our planet from merging neutron stars and black holes billions of light-years away.
If we were to look back at astronomy getting its start with people literally looking up at the night sky, compared to the sort of things that we know now by, for example, looking at the Hubble telescope images, the difference is vast, Hanna says.
I expect gravitational-wave astronomy to provide the same sort of insight into our universe in the coming years.
It should open up new discoveries that we cant even imagine.
Join Hanna at the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics in Ontario as he describes how gravitational-wave astronomy has changed our understanding of the universe and what LIGO could reveal in the near future.
The discussion, Windows on the Universe, is part of Perimeters public lecture series and will take place on Wednesday, April 3, at 7 P.M. Eastern time.
Online viewers can participate in the discussion by tweeting to @Perimeter using the #piLIVE hashtag.
It might not occur to us surface dwellers very often, but rocks can flowmore like the way exceedingly lethargic toothpaste would rather than water.
Exposed to the extreme temperatures and pressures that reign in the hellish realms far below our feet, rocks can practically swimslowly diving down and bobbing up through much of Earths subsurface.
For some rocky worlds around other stars, what is true for Earths innards may extend right up to the surface.
Super Earthssometimes rocky exoplanets that are bigger than our pale blue dot but smaller than massive ice giants such as Neptunehave comparatively strong gravitational fields.
Thanks to this extreme gravity, some scientists suspect, rocks on such worlds would flow far closer to the surface.
This arrangement would mean rocks that snap, fracture and break might only be found in thin veneers on these exoplanets crust.
If these rocky super Earths have thick, Venus-like atmospheres or are especially close to their parent star, they might exhibit no familiarly brittle geology at their surface at all.
Instead, says Paul Byrne, a planetary scientist at North Carolina State University and lead author of a study on the Super Earths, their surface rocks would be strangely malleable over long timescales, flowing a bit like the stretchy, sugary confections on offer in any earthly candy shop.
Understandably, Byrne has dubbed such worlds toffee planets.
The research, presented at the 50th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference in the Woodlands, Tex., has yet to be peer-reviewed.
That has not stopped Byrnesteam speculating on what its findings might mean for the myriad super Earths already discovered beyond our solar system.
The most striking possibility is that super Earths might not be able to sustain plate tectonicsthe drifting of continents and cycling of crustal rock that intimately shapes Earth.
Without that process, you can say goodbye to the building of mountains, the creation of oceans and plenty of a planets volcanoes, and, just maybe, the evolution of complex life itself.
The science is already starting to stick in experts mind.
Its a fascinating concept, says Sara Seager, a professor of astrophysics and planetary science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
In exoplanetary science, you rarely see anything new like this.
The fact that they came up with something new, that, in itself, is impressive.
Extrasolar Extrapolations Byrne and his colleagues work hinges on defining the point at which rocks deep below a planets surface no longer break in a mechanical way and instead begin to move like hot plastic.
This point, known as the brittle-ductile transition (BDT), depends on how the pressure and temperature change with depth.
For our own worlds crust, the BDT lies about 15.5 miles below the surface, although it varies quite a bit.
But what about on super Earths, where greater gravitational forces would correspondingly increase pressures on rock?
At what depths would BDTs emerge on such alien planets?
Taking inspiration from their own 2017 precursor paper, the researchers compiled data from 200 preexisting studies examining the lab-based deformation of basalt and other common rock types over a wide range of pressures and temperatures.
They first used these data to calculate the BDT depth for Earth, calibrating their equations until sensible numbers emerged.
Then they plugged in the estimated gravitational forces prevailing on five sizable, potentially rocky exoplanets found by NASAs late, great Kepler space telescope, from the hefty Kepler-36b to the smaller Kepler-406c.
The calculations revealed the BDT depths for those super Earths to be shockingly shallow, with some scarcely more than a mile beneath the surface.
A nearby star, a suffocating atmosphere or an abundance of internal, radioactivity-generated heat could further bake the top of such a world, perhaps raising the BDT all the way to the surface, creating a full-blown toffee world.
It is always risky to make planet-scale extrapolations from a figurative handful of data points, and the researchers acknowledge their calculations make assumptions aplenty.
One of them, notes Kayla Iacovino, a volcanologist and experimental petrologist at NASAs Johnson Space Center, who was not involved in the work, is that real exoplanets most likely have complicated internal structuresa reality not taken into account in the studys simplified approach.
Although approving of Byrnes teams first-order calculations and the principles behind them, Brad Foley, a geodynamicist at Pennsylvania State University, who was also not involved in the research, is skeptical of another key assumption: that the lithosphere, the uppermost mechanical layer of a planet, would be extremely thin on these rocky super Earths.
A planet with ductile rocks right up to its surface could still have a thick lithosphere, he says, because lithospheric thickness is determined by how vigorously a worlds underlying mantle is churning.
Because this churning is not something that the BDT significantly influences, one cannot use the BDT to gauge how thick the lithosphere is.
Although the model remains a work in progress, Iacovino says that it already demonstrates a really cool way to take a very small data set and make inferences about what the lithospheres of extrasolar worlds might look like.
Its extremely simplified, but because of a huge dearth of exoplanetary data, its what we have to work with.
Paint by Numbers Byrne acknowledges that the only way to test the validity of the model is to obtain direct observational data of candidate rocky super Earths.
Although there is some hope that colossal, next-generation exoplanet-spying telescopes will be able to get some vague sense of their topography, for now, such feats remain well beyond our capabilities.
With that in mind, Robert Stern, a geoscientist at the University of Texas at Dallas, who was not involved in the research, says that this ambitious work deserves credit, because these sorts of numerical models will help paint a picture of what exoplanetary geology may be like.
In my lifetime, Ive seen the solar system turn from something that belonged to astronomers to something that belonged to geologists, he says.
Were not there yet with exoplanets, but you can see this is a step in that direction.
Although incremental and provisional, the toffee worlds hypothesis could represent a sizable step indeed, as it directly addresses a question foremost in many an exoplanet-pondering geologists mind: Are worlds with plate tectonics common as dirt or vanishingly rare?
Either way, the answer has game-changing implications.
In order for plate tectonics to exist, a planet needs a few ingredients.
Water is probably vital, because it weakens the mantle and permits chunks of the planet to slip and slide that otherwise would remain immobile.
A worlds plates also must be sufficiently thick and dense to sink into the mantlea crucial step for initiating and stabilizing the tectonic cycle over eons.
Water or no, toffee worlds wafer-thin, brittle layers would not be able to dive deep, short-circuiting the engine of plate tectonics before it could even start.
This concept reinforces the notion that plate tectonics is a rare feature in the cosmos, Stern says.
After all, as far as we can presently see, Earth is the only planet where it operates.
Aside from making toffee planets geologically dull, the absence of plate tectonics could also significantly reduce continental erosion and runoff into any oceans.
This, Stern explains, would rob toffee worlds of a nutrient pump than may have given life a huge boost on ancient Earth.
Plate tectonics also acts as Earths thermostat, keeping the planets temperature stable on geological timescales by buffering the levels of atmospheric greenhouse gases.
Both of these tectonic side effects may be essential for the development of complex life.
Plate tectonics certainly gives Earths long-term biogeochemical cycles a constant refresh, Seager says, but she speculates that having a mantle far closer to the surface could create an entirely different refreshing mechanism.
Although currently unknown to science, there is nothing to say that this situation could not prop up toffee worlds very own biogeochemical cycles, too.
In any case, we dont know that plate tectonics is a requisite for habitable planets, Byrne says, so we certainly cant say that toffee planets are uninhabitable.
Controversial Confectionary The most contentious aspect of this thought-provoking study is not actually about any of the science.
It is about the name for these possible exoplanets.
The team is composed of researchers hailing from the U.K. and Ireland.
To us, Byrne says, toffee means something soft and chewy.
Scientists from North America tend not to see the word that way, considering toffee to be a hard, crunchy treat.
Byrne suggests taffy or fudge might be better, and a Twitter poll he ran put squidgy on par with toffee as participants preferred nomenclature.
Things have become even more complicated with the discovery by NASAs Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite (TESS) of a brand-new confirmed rocky super Earth, HD 213885b.
Byrnes calculations suggest that this newfound world might be a toffee planet, with a brittle layer just more than two miles thick.
The problem is that the radiation from HD 213885bs parent star is akin to that of 55 Cancri e, another known rocky super Earth whose dayside is entirely molten.
If HD 213885b is similarly hot, then any lack of rigidity at the surface wont be from relatively higher surface gravity so much as the floor being lava, Byrne says.
Its not quite a toffee planet, then, but something very close.
Maybe, he suggests, fondue planets are a thing, too.
Patricia Straat served as co-experimenter on one of the most controversial experiments ever sent to Mars: the Labeled Release instrument on the Viking Mars landers.
The experiments principal investigator, Gilbert Levin, insists to this day that the project found extraterrestrial life.
Most scientists doubt this interpretation, but the issue has never been fully settled.
When Viking 1 and 2 touched down on Mars in 1976, each carried several instruments to study the planet and look for signs of life.
The Labeled Release experiment mixed small samples of Martian soil with drops of water containing a nutrient solution and some radioactive carbon.
The instrument then sampled the atmosphere of its internal chamber.
If it detected the radioactive carbon, the thinking went, then microorganisms in the soil must have metabolized the nutrients and emitted the carbon.
The air around a control version, in contrast, heated up to temperatures thought to kill microbes, should not have any radioactive carbon.
And that is essentially what the investigators foundyet Vikings other experiments saw no signs of life or of the organic compounds needed to support life.
Many scientists concluded that the results were too good to believe and that the findings might be explained by reactive chemicals such as perchlorates in the Martian soil.
Now Straat has published a memoir, To Mars with Love, telling the inside story of this chapter in space history (available at www.tomarswithlove.com).
Scientific American spoke with Straat about the tumultuous process of planning the experiment and analyzing its results, and about the risks of Mars exploration if life does exist on the red planet.
[An edited transcript of the conversation follows.]
Were you always interested in space?
By the time I was 12, I could identify all the major constellations in the region where I grew up.
I watched the moon landing on television in 1969, and that really turned me on.
At the time I was an assistant professor at Johns Hopkins University working in molecular biology and enzyme systems, which was a long cry from anything involved in space.
I decided I wanted to make a career move.
Patricia Ann Straat working with the flight components of the Labeled Release instrument prior to the 1976 Viking Mission.
Credit: Patricia Ann Straat and Bruce Connor How did you get involved in Viking?
It was 1970 and Gil Levin, who designed the Labeled Release life detection experiment, heard I was considering a move and called me for an interview.
At the time I was not really interested in leaving academia for private industry.
But I met Gil and found him absolutely fascinating.
He had just found out that his experiment had been selected by NASA to be sent to Mars, and he wanted someone to implement that experiment because he had a company to run.
All my friends thought it was a suicidal career move, but it just sounded so fascinating.
What was the process like to develop the Labeled Release experiment?
It was a major, major, major effort.
For the first few years we worked on refining the science and worked with the engineers developing the hardware, testing it as we went along.
The first test of all three life detection experiments in a flight instrument occurred in the fall of 1973.
All three failed.
That started a major crisis.
It was nonstop meetings, and we worked 24/7 on fixing and testing the hardware to get it ready for launch.
We were still analyzing data as the biology instrument was sent to the Cape [Cape Canaveral, Fla.] for the launch.
Viking launched in 1975 and landed on Mars in 1976.
What was that like?
I went out to [the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) in] California for the landing and half expected it to crash.
The whole team was there.
The lander was released from the orbiter, maybe about midnight or so, and it came in by parachute.
We had a large TV screen that we could watch with columns of numbers on it, and the last column showed the altitude of the lander above the surface of Mars.
I clearly remember watching those numbers flash by.
As the lander approached the surface, the numbers I saw were 1,300 feet, 600 feet, 50 feet, then there was absolute dead silence.
I thought to myself, Surely it crashed.
All of a sudden over the loudspeaker came We have touchdown.
It was just so thrilling.
Everybody stood still for a second and then there were cheers all over JPL.
I have tried to convey this excitement in my book.
What are your memories of when the first results started coming in?
The Labeled Release experiment started on sol 10 [Vikings 10th Martian day on the planet].
The first data came in around 7:30 in the evening.
I was at the computer surrounded by Gil Levin and several other team members.
I worked the keyboard and hit the print button.
Then the computer printed the data points from the first nine hours of data.
I looked at it and said, Oh my God, its positive.
Not only was the instrument working, but the results were positive.
That was quite a thrill.
We rounded up the entire biology team to try to understand what it meant, because there was a press conference the next morning where we would report these results.
Were most of the team members thinking youd found life?
Oh no.
We werent convinced either.
The experiment consisted of two parts: one was adding micronutrients to the active soil sample; the second involved heat-sterilizing a duplicate sample of the soil before adding the nutrients to theoretically kill any microbes that might be there.
The difference between an active sample and the heat-sterilized control sample would define a positive response.
So we had to wait for the next cycle, another 15 sols downstream, before we ran the control.
The surprise was that the control was negative.
Thats when the controversy really started.
The results met the pre-mission definition of a positive life response.
But of course as soon as we got it everyone came up with alternative proposals to account for the results nonbiologically.
What did you think at this point?
I was pretty astounded, but very interested in these nonbiological hypotheses.
What we could say at the time was that the result was consistent with a life response.
I wasnt ready to say we had a life response, especially not in view of all the objections.
We tried to think of some way to distinguish whether it was a biological or chemical response.
We had heat-sterilized the control sample at 160 degrees centigrade.
The suggestion came up that if we could somehow lower the sterilization temperature, we might enhance the biological explanation.
If 50 degrees, say, killed the active response, that would be a strong indication that the positive response had been biological.
Very few chemicals are destroyed by 50 degrees centigrade.
However, we would expect such a low temperature to have a significant effect on Mars microbes because Mars is a much colder environment than Earth.
It turned out that two heaters were needed to reach 160 degrees.
We estimated that using just one of them would heat the soil to about 50 degrees.
When we did that on Mars, it significantly reduced the positive response.
That was fairly strong evidence that the active response had been biological.
However, there could be some chemical out there that does the same thing.
Nobody has been able to find such a chemical, though.
Gil Levin has been outspoken in saying that the LR experiment found life on Mars.
Do you agree?
Initially I didnt.
In the mid-90s Gil decided that since nobody had found a suitable nonbiological agent, there was enough evidence to say we had discovered life on Mars.
I didnt agree with him.
But when, four or five years later, more and more evidence was found for trace amounts of water on Mars, I began to agree that yes, we did find microbial life.
The caveat is the lack of organic molecules.
Some complex organics have been found on Mars, but they havent found simple organics like alanine and glycine [presumably required by life].
What do you think of the Mars missions that have followed Viking?
Im disappointed that recent missions have not looked for life.
Theyve studied the environment and its potential as a habitat.
I just dont understand it.
They should have followed through with a second Viking mission to verify and further characterize the positive Labeled Release results.
Now theyre talking about Mars sample return missions and manned missions to Mars.
While very exciting, I am concerned about the back-contamination problem.
You cant send people to Mars and return them without returning Mars soil to Earth.
And its certainly a possibility that life does exist on Mars, whether or not the Labeled Release experiment found it.
People really need to bear that in mind when they plan future missions.
I think until we know more we should be very cautious about returning a sample.
What do you make of the continued controversy over your experiments findings?
Id say its exciting.
We might believe that we discovered life on Mars, but we wont know the true answer for a long time.
I would like to see more life detection experiments sent to Mars soon to either prove it or disprove it.
NASA scheduled the first all-female space walk for the end of last month.
But a mere four days before the historic event was meant to happen, they scrapped the plan and subbed in a male astronaut, claiming it was because they did not have enough space suits in the proper size to fit all the women astronauts.
Unfortunately, women all too often must make do with equipment designed for men, an oversight that can be more than a PR embarrassment.
Many police stab vests fail to accommodate womens breasts, causing the protective gear to ride up and leave the wearers torso exposed.
Although the U.S. military designed uniforms to fit female bodies, they failed to develop boots that match womens narrower feet and higher arches.
And equipment design is not the only arena where this happens.
In her new book Invisible Women: Exposing Data Bias in a World Designed for Men, journalist Caroline Criado Perez explains how researchers in fields from medicine to transportation fail to collect data on women.
This affects aspects of daily life in the home, the workplace and everywhere in between, with results that range from inconvenient to deadly.
For example, vehicle safety systems designed and tested based on the default male will not necessarily protect female bodies.
Indeed, in a car crash, women are 17 percent more likely to die and 47 percent more likely to experience serious injury than men are.
Scientific American spoke with Criado Perez about why this gender data gap exists and how we can start fixing it.
[An edited transcript of the interview follows.]
What made you decide to write Invisible Women?
It was coming across the data on heart attacks: I discovered that what I had always thought of as just the standard heart attack symptomspain in the chest and down the left armare in fact male, and women tend to experience different heart attack symptoms.
[Ed.
note: Only one in eight women will feel chest pain during a heart attack, but they may experience pains in different areas, including the jaw and back, as well as shortness of breath and nausea.]
As a result of this, women are being misdiagnosed, so its not just a case of public health information not being good enough; its also a case of doctors not being trained to recognize potentially fatal symptoms in women.
I was incredibly shocked that I hadnt known that.
Were taught to think of science and medicine as objective and that facts are just facts.
Medical science, it turns out, suffers from the same lack of female representation as everywhere else.
In the book, you include several other examples of how the gender data gap affects daily life, often in surprising ways.
Can you talk about the case of snow removal?
The snow clearing is a really useful sum-up of the entire problem.
In this town called Karlskoga in Sweden, they were doing a gender audit of all their policies.
As it turns out, snow clearing has a lot to do with gender.
The way that they had traditionally done it was the way a lot of cities and towns do it: they clear the major road arteries first and then move on to local roads and pavements.
And that prioritizes typically male travels over typically female travels because men are more likely to do a commute on major roads and theyre more likely to drive.
Thats partly because women tend to have less money, but also because if a household has a car, men tend to dominate access to it.
Women are more likely to be using public transport and therefore more likely to be pedestrians as well.
[In Karlskoga] they decided to change it round and do the local roads and pavements first because they figured that it was easier to drive through three inches of snow than to walk or push a buggy through three inches of snow.
But what they didnt expect was that it would also end up saving them money.
Suddenly hospital admissions went down: women [had been] slipping and falling in icy conditions beforehand, and [now] they werent.
If they had been collecting sex-disaggregated data on who was falling in icy conditions and ending up in the hospital, they would have realized that it was mainly women.
Then they would have asked, Why is that?
and they would have got to the snow clearing that way.
We know that women are more likely to die from heart attacks than men are.
What are some other ways the lack of female data affects health care?
The problem is that women have different bodies to men and the sex differences that weve found operate all the way down to our cells.
The evidence that we have so far shows that womens bodies do react differently to drugs, that women exhibit different symptoms for various diseases, that diseases progress in different ways in women.
If were basing all our knowledge on male bodies, were going to end up not being able to spot and treat disease in women.
And that is in fact the case.
Look at adverse drug reactions, which women suffer in much greater numbers than men.
The second most common adverse drug reaction for a woman is that the drug simply doesnt work.
And these are drugs that have been tested and work in men.
Theres another study that is highly suggestive in terms of how many treatments we may have missed out on that would work for women.
They took male and female cells, and they exposed them to estrogen and then exposed them to a virus.
The female cells were able to use the estrogen to fight off a virus, and the male cells werent.
If theyd just been testing in male cellswhich 90 percent of studies arethey would have concluded that estrogen isnt relevant.
Why are researchers failing to collect data on women?
I dont think that theres a vast conspiracy to seriously injure and kill women.
The issue is that were so used to seeing the male body and lifestyle as just the standard human body and the standard human way of doing things.
Medical researchers say things like, Women are too complicated to measure because women have a menstrual cycle.
Yes, women do have a menstrual cyclebut I dont see that you would be making that excuse if you were really logically thinking about how that is the body that 50 percent of the population have.
You would only make that excuse if you think that women are a variation on men.
That is how we end up consistently forgetting to count women.
Some people suggest that algorithms and AI could help eliminate gender bias, but you disagree.
The issue there is that the data sets that algorithms are being trained on are incredibly male biased.
We know that algorithms amplify biases: if you feed them biased data, they will become more and more biased.
And this is already having an impact.
For example, Googles voice recognition software, which is meant to be the best on the market, is 70 percent less likely to recognize a female voice than a male voice because its trained on a voice database that is heavily skewed towards male.
But I am more concerned about the future of these algorithms.
They are becoming increasingly important to our lives.
They are already, for example, deciding what CVs get through to human eyes in all sorts of jobs.
The tech world just seems so blithely unaware of the male bias problem they have, and they keep making these errors that show us they really havent got a grip on the situation.
Ridiculous things like Apple forgetting to include a period tracker in its comprehensive health app, or Siri being able to find you Viagra but not an abortion provider.
They point to a sector that has not got a handle on how to design [algorithms] for women as well as men.
Almost the worst part about it is that these are private companies, and so these algorithms are protected as proprietary softwarewe cant even examine the biases that are being built into them.
I find that very concerning.
How should we solve this problem instead?
I cant give a very exciting answerits literally just collect data on women and separate it out from the male data.
On the one hand, that makes me feel really hopeful that this can change, because it is so simple; we just need to have the will to do it.
On the other hand, I feel a bit hopeless because its not like I am the only person to have ever noticed this.
As I said, there are all these incredible researchers already working on this, but there is this reluctance to do anything about it.
The evidence is that unless you regulate for this, it doesnt happen.
If you look at medical research, for example, things are by no means perfect, but for National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding youre meant to include women in the human stage of trials, and theyve just introduced that for the animal stage as well.
That has massively increased the number of women who get included in studies.
But if youre a private pharma company, which a huge number of clinical drug trials are funded by, or if youre doing generic drugs, there is no such requirement, and so the representation of women in the trials is much worse.
Governments need to recognize that this is a serious issue and that its not one that they can just leave up to people to do on their own, because they just wont do it.
What about nonlawmakers?
Can we do anything to help solve the gender data gap?
I think everyone can and should challenge male defaults, to not allow the male to occupy the default space when youre talking about anything.
Like when youre talking about sports: we say football instead of male football, but we always say womens football.
Part of the problem is that we just dont realize that were doing it9 times out of 10, when we think were talking gender-neutrally, were actually talking about men.
It allows us to not realize that this is whats happening.
I think that changing that would be quite a significant help towards shifting the problem.
Last month Denmarks biggest energy firm, rsted, said wind farms it is proposing for the North Sea will convert some of their excess power into gas.
Electricity flowing in from offshore will feed on-shore electrolysis plants that split water to produce clean-burning hydrogen, with oxygen as a by-product.
That would supply a new set of customers who need energy, but not as electricity.
And it would take some strain off of Europes power grid as it grapples with an ever-increasing share of hard-to-handle renewable power.
Turning clean electricity into energetic gases such as hydrogen or methane is an old idea that is making a comeback as renewable power generation surges.
That is because gases can be stockpiled within the natural gas distribution system to cover times of weak winds and sunlight.
They can also provide concentrated energy to replace fossil fuels for vehicles and industries.
Although many U.S. energy experts argue that this power-to-gas vision may be prohibitively expensive, some of Europes biggest industrial firms are buying in to the idea.
European power equipment manufacturers, anticipating a wave of renewable hydrogen projects such as rsteds, vowed in January that all of their gas-fired turbines will be certified by next year to run on up to 20 percent hydrogen, which burns faster than methane-rich natural gas.
The natural gas distributors, meanwhile, have said they will use hydrogen to help them fully de-carbonize Europes gas supplies by 2050.
Converting power to gas is picking up steam in Europe because the region has more consistent and aggressive climate policies.
Most U.S. states have goals to clean up some fraction of their electricity supply; coal- and gas-fired plants contribute a little more than a quarter of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions.
In contrast, European countries are counting on carbon reductions of 80 percent or more by midcenturyreductions that will require an economywide switch to low-carbon energy.
Cleaning up energy by stripping the carbon out of fossil fuels is costly.
So is building massive new grid infrastructure, including transmission lines and huge batteries.
Power-to-gas may be the cheapest way forward.
In order to reach the targets for climate protection, we need even more renewable energy.
Green hydrogen is perceived as one of the most promising ways to make the energy transition happen, says Armin Schnettler, head of energy and electronics research at Munich-based electric equipment giant Siemens.
Europe already has more than 45 demonstration projects to improve power-to-gas technologies and their integration with power grids and gas networks.
The principal focus has been to make the electrolyzers that convert electricity to hydrogen more efficient, longer-lasting and cheaper to produce.
The projects are also scaling up the various technologies.
Early installations converted a few hundred kilowatts of electricity, but manufacturers such as Siemens are now building equipment that can convert 10 megawatts, which would yield enough hydrogen each year to heat around 3,000 homes or fuel 100 buses, according to financial consultancy Ernst & Young.
The improvements have been most dramatic for proton-exchange membrane electrolyzers, which are akin to the fuel cells used in hydrogen vehicles (but optimized to produce hydrogen rather than consume it).
The price of proton-exchange electrolyzers has dropped by roughly 40 percent during the past decade, according to a study published in February in Nature Energy.
They are also five times more compact than older alkaline electrolysis plants, enabling onsite hydrogen production near gas consumers, and they can vary their power consumption within seconds to operate on fluctuating wind and solar generation.
Many European pilot projects are demonstrating methanation equipment that converts hydrogen to methane, too, which can be used as a drop-in replacement for natural gas.
Europes electrolyzer plants, however, are showing that methanation is not as critical to the power-to-gas vision as advocates long believed.
Many electrolyzers are injecting their hydrogen directly into natural gas pipelinessomething that U.S. gas firms forbidand they are doing so without impacting either the gas infrastructure or natural gas consumers.
Europes first large-scale hydrogen injection began in eastern Germany in 2013 at a two-megawatt electrolyzer installed by Essen-based power firm E.ON.
Germany has since ratcheted up the amount of hydrogen it allows in natural gas lines from an initial 2 percent by volume to 10 percent, and other European states have followed suit with their own hydrogen allowances.
Christopher Hebling, head of hydrogen technologies at the Freiburg-based Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy Systems, predicts that such limits will rise to the 20-percent level anticipated by Europes turbine manufacturers.
Moving renewable hydrogen and methane via natural gas pipelines promises to cut the cost of switching to renewable energy.
For example, gas networks have storage caverns whose reserves could be tapped to run gas-fired electric generation power plants during periods of low wind and solar output.
Hebling notes that Germanys gas network can store 240 terawatt-hours of energyroughly 25 times more energy than global power grids can presently store by pumping water uphill to refill hydropower reservoirs.
Repurposing gas infrastructure to help the power system could save European consumers 138 billion euros ($156 billion) by 2050, according to Dutch energy consultancy Navigant (formerly Ecofys).
For all the pilot plants and promise, renewable hydrogen presently supplies a tiny fraction of Europes gas.
And, globally, around 4 percent of hydrogen is supplied via electrolysis, with the bulk refined from fossil fuels, according to the International Renewable Energy Agency.
Power-to-gas is catching up, however.
According to the February Nature Energy study, renewable hydrogen already pays for itself in some niche applications, and further electrolyzer improvements will progressively extend its market.
If costs continue to decline as they have done in recent years, power-to-gas will become competitive at large scale within the next decade, says study co-author Gunther Glenk, an economist at the Technical University of Munich.
Glenk says power-to-gas could scale up faster if governments guaranteed premium prices for renewable hydrogen and methane, as they did to mainstream solar and wind power.
Tim Calver, an energy storage researcher turned consultant and Ernst & Youngs executive director in London, agrees that European governments need to step up their support for power-to-gas projects and markets.
Calver calls the scale of funding to date, not proportionate to the challenge that we face on long-term decarbonization and the potential role of hydrogen.
We humans often watch and wonder at wildlife.
But a defense agencys new initiative turns the tablesit aims to deploy marine animals to keep an eye on human activity.
The agency wants to know if sea life ranging from bioluminescent plankton to goliath grouper can serve as components of underwater surveillance systems capable of detecting the enemys oceangoing drones, large nuclear submarines and other underwater vehicles.
The research effort is called Persistent Aquatic Living Sensors (PALS).
Many marine animals respond audibly or visibly to sound, optical, electromagnetic and chemical shifts in the water around them.
For instance, schools of black sea bass change their behavior when disturbed by underwater vehicles, and certain microbes react to the magnetic signatures of submarines.
Existing surveillance technology can pick up this behavior but typically has treated it as background noise.
The PALS program was developed to leverage the great sensitivity that organisms have in the ocean to changes in their environment, says Lori Adornato, manager of the initiative, which is administered by the federal Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA).
Sonar is the conventional approach to underwater surveillance.
However, adversaries can detect those pings as well.
And sonar sensors are expensive, laborious to install and prone to being corroded or encrusted with organisms.
Some must even remain close to ship or shore to reach power sources.
So, the Navy primarily uses underwater surveillance to protect high-value assets, such as ports and aircraft carriers.
In contrast, living organisms are self-powered and can sense visual, magnetic and chemical cues as well as sounds.
This gives you a lot more flexibility in how you would observe things in the ocean, says Adornato.
Plus, these sensors are already installed throughout the seas, with each generation naturally replacing the previous one.
All these features make ocean life ideal agents for continuous, long-term surveillance.
By taking advantage of organisms, you can then look at persistence and wide-scale coverage as opposed to using one single sensor that does the whole job, says Adornato.
At least two challenges come with leveraging living organisms for maritime monitoring.
First, DARPA will need detectors to pick up on the relevant animal behavior.
Those detectors could face the same problems that trouble conventional sensors.
Second, you have to have some understanding of animal behavior, and thats always a huge wild card, says Kim Martini, a physical oceanographer based in Seattle, who is not part of the initiative.
To see what is possible, DARPA has started to grant a total of $45 million to five research teams, each studying a specific marine organism and its responses to underwater vehicles.
Researchers will use some combination of hydrophones, sonar, cameras and other sensors to study and record the organisms behavior.
They then will analyze the data to screen out false positives.
Finally, the teams will develop technology that can relay signals back to the military.
A group led by Laurent Chrubin, a physical oceanographer at Florida Atlantic Universitys Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institute, will use PALS funding to record and analyze the noises made by goliath grouper.
These territorial fish, which can grow up to 8.2 feet in length and weigh up to 800 pounds, are known to make distinct low-frequency booms when divers approach them.
Researchers suspect the boom is a distress call made in response to all kinds of intruders, including underwater drones and submarines.
To test this theory, Chrubin and his colleagues will become well-acquainted with every facet of the species behavior, bringing to light never-seen behaviors, says Chrubin.
The work will begin with captive fish before moving on to goliath grouper in natural habitats to see if any behaviors only occur in the wild.
Alison Laferriere, an oceanographic engineer at Raytheon BBN Technologies, will lead a team of biologists focusing on snapping shrimp.
Only a few centimeters long, snapping shrimp are one of the loudest marine organisms, producing 200-decibel (thats louder than a rocket launch) popping noises that Laferriere likens to the sizzle of frying bacon.
The pops travel for long distances, so they could strike enemy vehicles and bounce back to sensors, much like sonar does.
It has the potential to detect even the quietest vehicles that might be there, says Laferriere.
Laferriere is excited that her PALS project also will contribute to basic research.
While listening to the collective shrimp sounds of the ocean, her teams also will monitor habitat health and biodiversity.
And theyre breaking new ground; no one has studied how snapping shrimp react to the presence of an underwater vehicle and how that affects the overall soundscape, she says.
Other teams will use cameras and machine learning to look for useful patterns in the responses of bioluminescent organisms to underwater vehicles.
All of the researchers are expected to publish their findings, at least the unclassified ones, in the next several years.
And when they do, we can listen in too.
A fungus that kills amphibians by invading their skin has become one of the most destructive invasive species ever recorded, a new research report says.
Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis, a type of chytrid fungus, has caused declines in 500 amphibian species and driven dozens of them to extinction, according to the report, published Thursday in Science.
This is the first time scientists have taken global stock of the problem.
The impact of chytrid fungus is much larger than previously thought, says Ben Scheele, a postdoctoral fellow at Australian National University who led 40 other researchers in quantifying the devastation.
They found the pathogen threatens more species than invasive rodents or cats, dwarfing the effects of other dangerous wildlife diseases such as the notorious white-nose syndrome in bats.
This should be a clarion call for us all, says Vance Vredenburg, an ecologist at San Francisco State University who was not involved in the research.
The losses are significant and likely permanent.
Amphibian Apocalypse The creeping destruction of B. dendrobatidis (commonly known as Bd) was first noticed in the 1980s, and identified and named in the 1990s.
A 2018 genetic study pinpointed its origin to the Korean peninsula, and it spread through global shipping and the amphibian trade.
When it hit previously unexposed populations, the disease created an amphibian apocalypse.
The old-timer [biologists] would say, I never saw anything like this, recalls Michael Lannoo, a biologist at the Indiana School of Medicine and an expert on the disease who was not involved in the new report.
The spores of the fungus infect amphibian skin, causing it to harden and slough off.
Because amphibians drink through their skin, the resulting disease (called chytridiomycosis) disrupts their hydration and electrolyte balance, killing them.
Biologists had watched in horror as entire individual amphibian species succumbed, but no one had ever done a global survey to understand the diseases full impact.
To fill that gap, Scheele and his colleagues pulled together published and unpublished data about amphibian populations from across the globe.
They found Bd caused declines in 500 amphibian species, 90 of which are now extinct in the wild.
Another 124 have lost more than 90 percent of their population.
The declines varied regionally, hitting Australia and Central and South America particularly hard.
Some of this variation is likely related to climate: Bd dies in dry weather but its spores hang around stubbornly in wetter regions, Lannoo says.
Glimmers of Hope The new study did turn up a few glimmers of hope: for example, 60 affected species show signs of recovering from the worst of the disease, despite its persistence.
We should be feeling good about the fact that some species are able to evolve the right mechanisms to coexist with the pathogen in the wild, says Dan Greenberg, a doctoral candidate at Simon Fraser University who co-authored an op-ed in Science on the new research with ecologist Wendy Palen, also at Simon Fraser.
But Palen notes that even those hardy amphibians are struggling against myriad other barriers to survivalincluding climate change, water pollution and habitat lossand that species hit with Bd are more likely to succumb to these other pressures.
Where chytridiomycosis is not wiping out whole species it can be hard to disentangle its impacts from these other factors, says Michael Adams, an ecologist at the U.S. Geological Survey who was not part of the new study.
I suspect there are a lot of cases where there is a low-level effect of the diseasenot causing a big die-off, but its a drag on the population, he says.
The estimate in the new paper is intentionally conservative, and the researchers acknowledge uncertainty about Bds full consequences.
Humans can battle Bd by establishing captive breeding programs for threatened species, says Anne Baker, the executive director of the nonprofit umbrella group Amphibian Ark, which does just that.
Some researchers are considering trying to fast-track evolution in captive populations, Baker says, exposing captive frogs and toads to Bd and then breeding the fungus-resistant survivors.
Regulating the amphibian pet trade and improving biosecurity could also staunch the lossesand stop the next destructive pathogen in its tracks.
Bd took everyone by surprise, Scheele says, but conservation experts have been quicker to deal with newer threats.
In 2016 the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service banned the import of 201 salamander species in hopes of keeping out the closely related fungus B. salamandrivorans, which has hit Europes fire salamander population hard.
We previously had no idea that a pathogen could have such devastating, rapid and severe impacts, Scheele says.
The quantification of chytrid shows the seriousness of what these pathogens can do.
The UK Biobank is the single largest public genetic repository in the world, with samples of the genetic blueprints of half a million Brits standing by for scientific study.
But when David Hill, a statistical geneticist at the University of Edinburgh, went poring through that data, he wasnt looking for a cure for cancer or deeper insights into the biology of aging.
Nothing like that.
He was trying to figure out why some people make more money than others.
Along with a team of European collaborators, Hill sifted through the UK Biobank data to find about 286,000 participants who had answered a survey question about household income.
Using that information they conducted something called a Genome Wide Association Study, or GWAS, where they looked at 18 million places in the genome to see which ones matched up with higher paychecks.
They uncovered about 30, which account for 7.4 percent of household income variation across the United Kingdom.
(For some context, another way of viewing the results is to say that 92.6 percent of a persons income is explained by factors other than genetics.)
Hill noticed that many of the genetic differences overlapped with areas known to be associated with intelligence, based on some of his prior work, and when he mapped them out they were largely expressed in the brain.
His team then used these regions to compute a polygenic scorea genetic calculation that predicts a persons odds of reaching a certain outcome, of say developing diabetes, or earning six figures.
It didnt perform particularly well, correctly forecasting only 2.5 percent of the differences in income in an independent sample of Scots.
Your DNA will not print you money, says Hill.
But hes relieved to have found some small effect.
If none of the traits or abilities youre born with a predisposition for counted in any way shape or form towards your income, then youd have a profoundly unfair society, in my opinion, he says.
Hill and like-minded colleagues are working on a science they call sociogenomics.
And bolstered by a global boom in biobanking they have more data than ever before to probe connections between peoples DNA and their socioeconomic circumstances.
A genetic income score could allow economists and epidemiologists to more precisely investigate fundamental questions about inequality.
Policymakers might incorporate this information to better evaluate the social programs intended to pull people out of cycles of poverty.
In some places, it could be spun as a powerful argument for radical resource redistribution.
Then there are the dystopian outcomes.
Prospective employers could ask you to submit your genetic income score as part of a job application.
Health and life insurers could use it to calculate your premiums.
Social programs might use it as disqualifying criteria for receiving benefits.
Apps like the ones that prevent you from accidentally dating a relative could help you pair up with those genetically inclined toward prosperity.
IVF clinics could incorporate it into their genetic screening procedures so parents can choose the highest earning embryos in addition to the healthiest ones.
For every opening to use such information to create a more fair and just society, there exist in equal measure opportunities to weaponize it to exacerbate existing inequalities or perpetuate new ones.
Hills unpublished research, posted to the preprint server bioRxiv in mid-March and currently under review, is not yet the stuff of financial fortune-telling.
But other, bigger efforts to increase the accuracy of genetic income scores are already underway.
Weve been shying away from looking at income for a very long time for a number of reasons, says Philipp Koellinger, an economist at the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam, where he studies the genetics of behavior.
Looking at the molecular architecture of money-making has a lot of potential to be misinterpreted or abused, he says.
Especially by fringe groups who might latch on to sociogenomic research as support for racist notions of a hierarchy of human worth.
Despite its new name and new software packages, the emerging field of sociogenomics will forever be entangled with the long, dark, history of the statistical tools that serve as its foundationtools invented by some of the grandfathers of American eugenics.
(For more on this, Id suggest Carl Zimmers excellent book on the science of inheritance.)
But, says Koellinger, the main reason researchers havent done those studies has been the inadequacy of the datasets.
Cheap DNA sequencing and a burst of precision health mega-projects like the UK Biobank, BGIs Million Chinese Genomes project, and All of Us, in the US, are changing that.
Those ethical problems are still large and looming out there, says Koellinger, who worries most that companies will commercialize his results into genetic soothsayers, which he describes as very misguided.
But were at a point where so much data is available that someone will do it eventually, so we might as well be the ones to do it first with all the experience weve collected over the years.
Back in 2011, Koellinger founded the Social Science Genetic Association Consortium, along with Daniel Benjamin and David Cesarini, to convince researchers from around the world to pool their data so theyd have enough to run something called a Genome-Wide Association Study, or GWAS.
The hope was to tease apart genetic effects from environmental ones for particular traits.
The first thing the SSGAC looked into was how long people stay in school.
Now, Koellinger is tapping the same network to assemble the largest-ever study linking DNA to dollar signs.
So far, hes recruited 22 cohorts with more than 800,000 individuals.
Some of them include biobanks in Scandinavian countries that also keep public registries of their citizens tax returns.
Others are less granular.
The UK Biobank, for example, only includes household income, and lumps those into five buckets.
To get around that, Koellingers team has developed an algorithm that estimates a persons income using his or her occupation, age, sex, and housing type.
Using this method, and a bigger sample size, Koellinger hopes to eliminate some of the noisiness of the Hill team analysis to arrive at a more powerful genetic predictor of income.
The project is still in its early phases but could have initial results as soon as later this year.
Of course, limitations still abound.
The worlds genetic repositories overwhelmingly contain data from people of European descent.
So any polygenic scores derived from them are likely to have less utility in non-white populations.
Still, Koellinger imagines that the genetic income scores theyll generate will be very valuable to economists trying to uncover how DNA influences the trajectories of peoples livesthe degrees they get, the jobs they work, the money they spend (or save).
But other researchers warn that results from such methods should be interpreted cautiously.
Its tricky, because right now were much better at identifying genetic variations and building polygenic scores than we are at understanding the causal underpinnings, says Graham Coop, an evolutionary biologist at UC Davis.
So while you can use them to control for something about genetics, the issue is you dont know exactly what youre controlling for.
Unlike other fields of science that involve designing experiments to collect data and test hypotheses, sociogenomics doesnt bother with either.
Instead, using data thats been collected elsewhere, behavioral geneticists unleash statistical algorithms to devour it and spit out correlationsnot causationbetween minute variations in the DNA and any trait that might be of interest.
And when you dont have any visibility into whether those correlations implicate innate biology (neurons that fire faster, say), or social stratification (discrimination based on race, sex, religion, etc) you can make mistakes.
Coop knows this from first-hand experience.
Earlier this year he and a set of collaborators set out to replicate an interesting finding in his fieldthat DNA is the reason height varies so drastically across Europe, from the warm southern Mediterranean latitudes up to the sub-Arctic Nordic ones.
Starting in 2012, a series of papers used polygenic scores to show for the first time natural selection in action for a complex trait like height.
But when Coops team looked for the same signal in the UK Biobank (a much bigger sample), the effect disappeared.
We thought it was a solid case, wed just tick the box on replication, and instead it came crashing down, says Coop.
The lesson was that there are all these subtle biases that can creep in when you calculate polygenic scores, and those biases compound over thousands of calculations.
If that can happen with a trait like height, which is about 80 percent heritable and has been studied for well over half a century, who knows what pitfalls await attempts to do the same thing for income?
Koellinger is taking these concerns, along with the ethical ones, seriously.
He plans to invite his most vocal critics to collaborate with him on the new GWAS project, in the hopes that by involving them in communicating the results he can head off any misinformed or malicious interpretations.
We have a scientific responsibility to not just let that happen but to actively try to steer the process.
he says.
But he admits that without some form of regulation, writing FAQs and giving interviews can only go so far.
It doesnt take long for companies to turn polygenic scores for behavioral traits into products, like DNA tests for academic achievement, or genetic embryo scans for low intelligence.
As soon as our results are in the public domain we have very little control over what people are going to do with it.
Hill thinks the answer isnt regulation so much as education, so consumers know enough not to be taken in by polygenic score-powered products promising dubious individual predictions.
But if thats the case, his own FAQ could use a little work.
Nowhere does it mention that a genetic income score that explains only 2.5 percent of variation is not remotely accurate at predicting how much money an individual will make.
When I asked him about the notable absence he said I dont believe theres anyone out there today who honestly thinks a polygenic score is a good predictor on an individual level at this stage, but admitted that it might be a good idea to say so explicitly.
Like other sociogenomics researchers, Hill envisions his work will help bring about the prospect of personalized social policy.
In the same way that personalized medicine aims to identify individuals with a predisposition for a disease, and give them tools to prevent it from ever manifesting, you could do the same thing with social interventions, he says.
If you could compute a genetic income score or genetic education score for kids at a young age, you could change their environment before they start struggling.
That might sound good at first, but if the goal is a more just society, policymakers are supposed to work without knowledge of things like socioeconomic status, sex, race, personality, talents, and especially genes.
The idea being that doing so automatically leads to discrimination.
Sure, DNA sequencing might not have been around when the influential political philosopher John Rawls articulated this idea in his veil of ignorance thought experiment, but a persons genetic source code certainly would have qualified as information better left in the dark.
As researchers like Hill and Koellinger move forward with mining the worlds DNA deposits, policymakers will soon have to decide on which side of the veil polygenic scores for things like income, education, and intelligence belong.
More Great WIRED Stories
The Falcon Heavy rocket is many things, but timely is not one of them.
Delay after delay have plagued its development.
And this week, the same fate befell its launch schedule.
Originally planned to liftoff last Sunday, the Falcon Heavys first commercial launch was thrice delayed due to unfavorable weather conditions before it finally left launchpad 39-A at Kennedy Space Center today.
The wait was worth it.
The minute the launch window opened on Thursday, the rocket boosted its payload, a Saudi Arabian telecommunications satellite, toward geostationary orbit.
Even from across several miles of water, the power of 5 million pounds of thrust was enough to rattle your ribcage.
One nearly had to shout to be heard over the roar of the 27 Merlin engines as the rocket departed the launchpad, but few felt the need to say anything.
Instead, most of the reporters I was with on the causeway cast their eyes to the sky, tracking the rocket between breaks in the low-hanging clouds as it boosted a 13,000 pound satellite thousands of miles above the Earth.
Less than eight minutes after launch, the rockets two side boosters appeared overhead, looking like two building-sized candlesticks in the twilight sky.
As the rockets executed their final burn to perform a nearly simultaneous landing, two sonic booms ripped through the otherwise peaceful Florida night.
Everyone on the causeway erupted in cheers after it was clear that both boosters had successfully landed, the tops of which could just be seen over the trees.
Only a few minutes later, the center core attempted a landing on Of Course I Still Love You, a drone ship parked in the Atlantic Ocean 600 miles from the launchpad.
A handful of spectators were listening to a radio broadcast from the launch command center, waiting to hear the fate of the center core.
The two minutes between the side boosters landing and the center cores attempt were tense.
During the Falcon Heavys demo flight last year, the center core landed in the water and the resulting explosion damaged the drone ship.
The botched landing was due to insufficient fuel to light some of the engines, CEO Elon Musk later revealed, but he said the fix is pretty obvious.
Whatever obvious fix Musk and the SpaceX crew employed this time around clearly worked.
The center core nailed its landing on the drone ship and once word made its way from SpaceX command center, the journalists and photographers assembled on the NASA causeway went absolutely wild.
Only a few years ago, the idea of landing a rocket booster was unthinkable.
And now, SpaceX had just aced a landing by three boosters from the same rocket.
Daniel Oberhaus The companys success was not guaranteed.
Musk had warned his followers that SpaceX was being extra cautious ahead of the Falcon Heavys first commercial flight to give engineers the time to make sure it would go off without a hitch.
The caution is understandable.
Although the Falcon Heavy had flown a demo mission once before, this rocket used new block 5 boosters, which are seven percent more powerful than the ones used for the demo flight.
First flight for Falcon Heavy Block 5 means there is some risk of failure between 5% to 10% imo, Musk had tweeted.
Many good design improvements from Falcon Heavy demo, but the changes are unproven.
LEARN MORE The WIRED Guide to commercial space flight The success of the Falcon Heavys first commercial flight is good news for the Air Force.
The next flight of the Falcon Heavy will be an Air Force rideshare mission that is expected to occur no earlier than mid-June.
That launch will use the two side boosters that landed at Kennedy today to boost 25 satellites built by organizations including Georgia Tech, the Planetary Society, and NASA.
Musk has long said that he will consider SpaceX successful when landing rockets becomes boring.
But after watching the worlds most powerful operational rocket go to orbit and then return each of its three first-stage boosters to Earth, I cant help but think that SpaceX will never be successfulat least not by Musks metrics.
The nearly simultaneous landing of the two side boosters is the most futuristic thing I have ever seen.
In fact, one of the only things I can imagine that is more extraordinary than this feat of engineering would be treating it as mundane.
More Great WIRED Stories
Heres how you test your intracranial pressure in space.
First, you collect baseline samples of your blood, saliva, and urine, and take ultrasound images of the vessels in your heart, neck, head, and eyes, lining up the scanning device on black dots tattooed on your body before you left Earth.
Then, you clamber into the Chibis, Russian for lapwing, a pair of hard, corrugated-rubber pants whose waist can be sealed.
The pants suck: A vacuum imitates how gravity on Earth pulls blood, mucus, the water in cells, and cerebral and lymphatic fluids from our skulls to the bottom half of the body.
In space, fluids wont drain, and astronauts develop red, puffy faces and complain of congestion or pressure in their ears.
There are worse effects, too: 40 percent of the astronauts who lived on the International Space Station suffered some sort of damage to their eyes, including optic disc edema, globe flattening, and folds in the choroid, the blood-filled layer between the retina and the white sclera.
NASA posits intracranial pressure is a possible explanation for what it calls spaceflight-associated neuro-ocular syndrome, and devised the test to measure fluid shifts to astronauts heads and eyes.
Wearing the lapwing is a mildly anxiety-inducing procedure.
Once, a Russian cosmonaut lost consciousness when his heart rate dropped.
His crewmates thought he was having a heart attack.
Another time, the cosmonaut working the controls decreased the pressure too muchratcheting up the suckingand the astronaut felt like I could have my intestines pulled out in the most unpleasant way possible.
Jason Pontin About Jason Pontin (@jason_pontin) is an Ideas contributor for WIRED.
He is a senior partner at Flagship Pioneering, a firm in Boston that creates, builds, and funds companies that solve problems in health, food, and sustainability.
From 2004 to 2017, he was the editor in chief and publisher of MIT Technology Review.
Before that he was the editor of Red Herring, a business magazine that was popular during the dot-com boom.
Pontin does not write about Flagships portfolio companies nor about their competitors.
But if nothing goes wrong, you hang out in the suit for a few hours, taking more ultrasound images.
You check your blood pressure.
You measure cochlear fluid with an instrument in your ear and record intraocular pressure by tapping a pressure sensor against your anesthetized eyeball.
You scan your eyeball with a laser to visualize choroidal folds and optic nerve swelling.
The Fluids Shifts experiment was performed by astronaut Scott Kelly when he lived on the ISS from March 27, 2015, to March 1, 2016, the longest spaceflight by an American.
At the same time, his twin brother Mark, also an astronaut, tested his intracranial pressure back on Earth.
Over 25 months, the brothers submitted to a parallel routine of cognitive and physical testsincluding a spinal tap for Scottin the lab before, during, and after the mission.
In all, 317 samples of stool, urine, and blood from both twins were collected and analyzed for their epigenomic, metabolomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, and microbiome changes.
All of this was a first for NASA, which had never conducted a modern biological analysis of an astronaut, let alone of an astronaut and a monozygotic control.
The idea behind the study has a simple logic: Because the twins share the same genome, comparing the changes that occurred while one was in space and the other on Earth would give new insights into the impact of long-duration spaceflight on human health.
The most serious changes were to gene expression and DNA.
The results, whose findings were finally published in Science today, expand our understanding of what happens to the human body after a year in space.
The NASA Twins Study: A Multidimensional Analysis of a Year-Long Human Spaceflight is a triumph of cross-disciplinary science.
Described as a Herculean endeavor by one of the articles peer reviewers, it integrates the work of 10 different groups at universities around the country and 82 separate authors.
Francine Garnett-Bakelman, the articles lead author and a molecular biologist at the University of Virginia, said it was the most comprehensive result possible based on the data available.
But to the essential question Are humans fit for space?
the study provides only unsettling and incomplete answers.
Long-term exposure to spaceflight is dangerous; based on what we know now, a journey to Mars is still too risky to contemplate.
More than 500 people have flown in space, and some of the bodily changes they experienced during missions lasting less than a month or as long as six months are well understood.
Fluids shift to astronauts heads; the left side of their hearts grow.
Unless they exercise vigorously, they lose muscle and bone.
But only four individuals have lived in space for a year or more, and the physiological effects of long-duration spaceflight are unknown.
A human mission to Mars could last as long as three years, and in the laconic tones of the twins study, genetic, immune system, and metabolic functions are of particular concern given exposure to space radiations, restricted diets disrupted circadian rhythms, and weightlessness.
The US government has proposed Americans return to the Moon by 2024.
Mars is next, during a low-energy launch window in 2033, when the Red Planets eccentric orbit brings it closest to Earth.
If we hope to embark on what NASA calls exploration-class missions, we must know more.
Surprisingly, then, the origins of the twins study were not within NASA Human Research.
Scott Kelly suggested the idea himself.
I was being briefed for a media event when the crew members were announced for ISS missions 43 to 36.
They wanted MishaMikhail Kornienko, Scotts cosmonaut counterpartand me to know the science program so we could answer questions about it.
At that meeting I said, Hey, if somebody asks a question about my brother Mark, do you guys have any intention of doing genetic studies on us?
And they said no.
But a couple of weeks later, I had another meeting with these same guys, and they had reached out to some university researchers who thought there was some value in the idea.
Scott and Mark Kelly were born in Orange, New Jersey, in 1954.
They are the only twin astronauts in NASAs history, and are remarkable by any measure.
No one observing their boyhoods would have marked them as future astronautsexcept, perhaps, a pediatric psychologist specializing in stimulus-seeking siblings.
In Scotts autobiography, Endurance, he recounts the crazy risks he and Mark took as boys (they bought crappy boats with no navigation equipment or working radio, and sailed them out beyond the horizon of the Jersey shore in all weathers) and their inevitable consequences in broken bones.
Their parents were hard-drinking cops, the father a violent alcoholic.
Scott writes, Sometimes I think if my father hadnt been a police officer, he would have been a criminal.
And its easy to think something similar of the two brothers: If their parents hadnt been cops, they might have been delinquents in juvenile detention.
Both did badly in school, and Scott struggled more than Mark.
Both were quickly bored.
But both conceived an implausible desire to become astronauts, Scott because he fell in love with Tom Wolfes vivid prose.
I wanted to be a naval aviator.
I was still a directionless, undereducated 18-year-old with terrible grades who knew nothing about airplanes.
But The Right Stuff had given me the outline of a life plan.
They found a backdoor into naval aviation through ROTC at the Merchant Marine Academy (Mark) and the State University of New York Maritime College (Scott).
At college, they discovered they were highly intelligent engineersperfect scores in calculus came easily now that they had a goaland in the Navy they landed jets on carriers and became test pilots.
Mark flew in combat during the Gulf War.
They were both selected as astronauts in the class of 1996.
During their NASA careers, Mark was the pilot or commander of four Space Shuttle missions; Scott piloted and commanded two Shuttles and spent six months on the ISS before his year in space.
After Marks wife, Arizona Representative Gabby Giffords, was shot in 2011, he flew his last mission and retired from the space agency.
Scott is unfailingly generous about what the twins study demanded of his brother: You have to give him a lot of credit.
He wasn't getting any of the glory about being the person in space.
He did it completely for the sake of the science.
But the physical demands of the research werent glorious for Scott, either.
There were timesmaybe once a weekwhere I had what seemed like a whole day of collecting samples.
You wake up in the morning and collect blood and centrifuge it and put it in the freezer.
Then, you do your first urine collection and you keep collecting urine throughout the day: 24-hour urine collecting, which is annoying because you can't use the toilet designed for space.
Its messy.
And once youve peed in this bag, youve got to remove the test tubes from the bag of urine and then youve got to bar code them, scan them, and put them in the freezer.
Even the lab freezer is a little complicated.
Every time you open the door you can't leave it open too long: its 80 Celsius, and you might get a little get a little cold burn on you.
That same day, you might do skin samples, feces.
For the subject of the study, the ISS was unlike any terrestrial lab or clinic.
In conversation and in his book, Scott Kelly artfully evokes the sensorial assault of his home in space.
The International Space Station is deafeningly noisy: fans whirr and electronics hum.
It smells bad, too: of the off-gassing of plastics, garbage, and body odor.
(Space itself smells, Scott tells usor, rather, objects exposed to the vacuum of space possess a unique odor: a strong burned metal smell, like the smell of sparklers on the Fourth of July, [or] the smell of welding.)
Weightlessness posed particular challenges for a human research program, especially for an astronaut who was often tired, cold, and crabby from breathing too much CO 2 .
Collection devices and samples could never be put down, but had to be attached to walls; experiments had to progress in prearranged sequences.
Once the samples were collected aboard the ISS and on Earth, the work had barely begun.
Scotts samples had to be returned to Earth aboard Soyuz capsules (Mark used the US Post Office), and the twins blood separated into plasma and different kinds of cells, including the cells that govern the immune system.
All the samples had to be assayed, and the data shared and analyzed among the 10 working groups.
No wonder the whole project took more than four years to complete.
What was learned?
Chris Mason, the principal investigator of the Gene Expression Group and a professor of physiology and biophysics at Weill Cornell Medicine, described the effect of space travel on Scotts genes as not just a sparklerit was like fireworks in the sky.
More than 10,000 genes were activated by spaceflight.
To give you some context, Mason explains, there are about 58,000 known genes in the human genome, so we were seeing a lot of the bodys ability to respond activating.
That makes sense, given the punitive stresses of lift-off, a year-long mission, and reentry.
Even so, the twins study groups were stunned by the extensive changes that occurred everywhere in Scotts body, including the length of his telomeres, the caps at the end of chromosomes that protect the integrity of DNA; gene regulation, measured by both interaction with the environment and the orchestration of gene activity; the microbiome or bacteria in his gut; the dimensions of his carotid artery; and the health of his eyes.
Scotts immune system was generally turbulent during his year in space: Many of his immune-related cellular pathways were disrupted, including the adaptive immune system, innate immune response, and the natural killer-cells that protect the body from cancers like leukemia and viruses.
(The result confirms a shocking study published in January that compared the immune systems of eight astronauts who completed spaceflights longer than six months with healthy adults on Earth: Just 90 days into their flights, the astronauts natural-killer cells were 50 percent less capable of fighting leukemia cells.)
Scotts cognitive function was also whacked: He got dumber on the ISS.
The human body is wonderfully adaptive, and almost all of these changes were transient: Scott returned to normal within six months of returning to Earth.
He became his old self, except for the ordinary depredations of age.
But some of the effects of spaceflight left their mark.
Scott got dumber on the ISS, but he stayed dumber, too.
The decline in the speed and accuracy of his mental functions persisted six months after his mission.
Most surprising of all were Scotts accordioning telomeres.
While he was on the ISS, his telomeres weirdly lengthened, perhaps because of how much he exercised and how little he ate.
But within 48 hours of returning to Earth, his telomeres rapidly shortened in reaction to the stresses of landing.
Although most of Scotts telomeres eventually shifted back to baseline levels, six months after his mission he had substantially fewer telomeres overall and increased numbers of critically short telomeres.
That finding was alarming: Telomere loss might increase astronauts risk of developing cancer and other diseases of old age.
The authors of the NASA twins study helpfully distinguish between the potentially low-risk, mid-level or unknown risks, and high-risk effects of a year-long spaceflight: Scotts telomere loss was an unknown risk.
An example of a highly dynamic association with potentially low risk were the changes to Scotts microbiome.
A few well-known high-risk changes were confirmed by the study, including spaceflight-associated neuro-ocular syndrome.
However, some high-risk changes were newly discovered, and long-duration space travel will require their solution.
Fully 91.3 percent of Scotts genes whose expression changed during spaceflight returned to normal ranges within six months.
But a distinct subset of genes never did: 811 genes across different cell types, almost all of them related to immune function and DNA repair.
Thats bad news for the future of humans in space, because these are precisely the genes that must protect astronauts from space radiation.
Earths magnetic fields and atmosphere shelter us from most of the ionizing radiation that streams through space.
A typical Earthling absorbs about three Sieverts (mSv) every year.
During a Space Shuttle mission lasting a week, an astronaut might have received 5.59 mSv.
The crew of Apollo 14 were exposed to 11.4 mSv.
Scott Kelly received 146.34 mSv during his year in space.
When he closed his eyes to sleep in his cramped quarters at night, Scott would see cosmic flashes light up his field of vision, the result of radiation striking his retinas.
Much of the genomic instability and rearrangement recorded by the twins study is probably the result of space radiation.
And that DNA damage may be contributing to dysregulated gene expression.
In an especially worrying detail, the number of differentially expressed genes were six-fold higher in the last six months of Scotts mission.
Neither Chris Mason nor anyone else knows whether this dysregulated gene expression would have plateaued or continued to scale had Scott lived another six months or longer on the ISS.
We know that it is not the direction we want, Mason says.
We see a flurry of gene networks activating to respond to the DNA damage and the body adapting, but it may not be enough of a response to overcome radiation damage.
This matters because the highly charged energies of space radiation kill cells and make them malfunction, or break strands in DNA and knock out base pairs.
Dead or poorly functioning cells cause heart disease or cognitive decline; if cells cannot repair DNA damage, mutations accumulate that cause cancer and heritable diseases.
The ISS is only 250 miles above Earth, still beneath the Van Allen radiation belts clement umbrella.
During a Mars mission, an astronaut might absorb as much as 1,200 mSv.
The overall risk of cancer for astronauts is still relatively low, but almost everyone has flown close to the Earth, Mason says.
We dont yet know, but I would say radiation is the big problem.
Editor's note: Read our recap of the launch here.
A little over a year ago, SpaceX pulled off a showy first launch for its new rocket, the Falcon Heavy.
The flight dispatched founder Elon Musks cherry-red Tesla convertible, with an empty spacesuit dubbed Starman in the drivers seat, on a multimillion-year journey around the solar system.
After the launch, the rockets three first-stage boosters returned to Earth to attempt an unprecedented synchronized landing.
Now that rocket is getting ready to fly again.
The Falcon Heavy represents SpaceXs ambition of competing for lucrative heavy-launch commercial and government contracts, which would require transporting payloads weighing more than 40,000 pounds into geosynchronous orbit.
If this second flight is successful, the Falcon Heavy will be much closer to satisfying the militarys strict requirements and landing those deals.
The first commercial flight of the Falcon Heavy, from Kennedy Space Center in Florida, is expected to launch at 6:35 pm ET today (Thursday).
Originally scheduled to fly on Sunday, the launch was delayed twice due to unfavorable weather conditions.
This mission will carry a Saudi Arabian telecommunications satellite, dubbed Arabsat 6A, into a geosynchronous orbit, where it will provide television, internet, and telephone services for countries in the Middle East, Africa, and Europe.
A few minutes after launch, SpaceX will attempt to land each of the rockets three first stage boosterstwo on landing pads near the launch site and one on a floating drone ship 600 miles off the coast.
Last year, SpaceX successfully brought two boosters back to land, but fuel issues prevented the center core from sticking its landing.
As the most powerful operational rocket in existence by a factor of two, the Falcon Heavy is nothing short of a technological marvel.
With the thrust equivalent of about 18 747 airliners, it can hoist around 140,000 pounds into low Earth orbit and 58,000 pounds into geosynchronous orbit, more than enough to handle the 13,000 pound Arabsat.
The Falcon Heavys main selling point, however, is that it is the only heavy launch vehicle in the world that has reusability baked into its design.
Each of the Falcon Heavys three first-stage boosters are borrowed directly from SpaceXs flagship Falcon 9 rocket, so named for the nine Merlin engines that provide its thrust.
Unlike the Falcon Heavys first flight, which used an older model of booster, todays vehicle will consist of three new block 5 engine cores.
SpaceX first launched the block 5 Falcon 9 rocket last May, and has flown these boosters 13 times since.
The block 5 is designed to fly at least 10 times with minimal refurbishment between launches, and it offers a 7 percent increase in thrust over its predecessors.
If the Falcon Heavy can prove its mettle, it could cut the cost of heavy launches dramatically.
Since 2004, the US heavy launch market has been dominated by the United Launch Alliances Delta IV heavy rocket, which has half the lift capability at approximately four times the cost.
A single ride on the Delta IV heavy has been quoted at around $350 million, whereas a Falcon Heavy launch starts at $90 million for a brand-new rocket, a price point that may go as low as $70 million for launches using previously flown boosters.
For companies looking to launch a large satellite, the savings are significant.
But SpaceX will likely find its biggest customer in the US government.
The existence of the Falcon Heavy could be good news for future deep-space exploration missions, which often require heavy-launch capability to throw the spacecraft to Mars and beyond.
These missions already have to fight to justify their cost, and between 10 and 20 percent of a mission price tag is generally reserved for the launch itself.
If NASA can shave tens of millions of dollars off the cost of sending its spacecraft to other planets, these savings could, in principle, be used to develop exploration missions that would have otherwise been defunded.
To handle military payloads, SpaceX still faces a number of hurdles before the rocket is cleared for use.
The Air Force reserved a flight on the Falcon Heavy in 2012, with an initial launch date scheduled for no earlier than 2015.
That has yet to happen, but it didnt stop the military from awarding SpaceX a $130 million contract to launch a classified satellite on a Falcon Heavy only months after its demo flight.
Earlier this year, SpaceX won a second Air Force contract for another classified satellite that is expected to fly on the Falcon Heavy.
In February, however, the Department of Defense launched an investigation into the military certification of SpaceX rockets for reasons that remain unclear.
These government deals are becoming increasingly important to SpaceX, especially with the commercial market for large satellites appearing to slow.
Indeed, a perusal of the launch manifest for the Delta IV heavy shows that the majority of its flights over the past 15 years have hosted military payloads, and the ability to snag some of these lucrative contracts in the future would represent a major windfall for SpaceX.
The Air Force will undoubtedly be paying close attention to the Arabsat launch today, which will help prove that the rocket can safely deliver its sensitive payloads to orbit.
Moreover, the two side boosters flying today are expected to be reused in the first Air Force mission this summer, assuming they land successfully back at Kennedy Space Center after their flight.
Meanwhile, the US military is helping to clear the way for a new generation of heavy-launch vehicles that will eventually compete against SpaceX.
In March, the US government overhauled its Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle program, which was created nearly two decades before SpaceX demonstrated a reusable rocket for the first time.
Under these old guidelines, reusable heavy-launch vehicles under development, like the Blue Origin New Glenn rocket, wouldve had a hard time qualifying for sensitive military missions since the rockets arent expendable.
The new National Security Space Launch program will provide a clear pathway for certifying rockets using previously flown parts for military missions, a change largely driven by the success of the Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy rockets.
Although it will eventually mean more competition, the militarys willingness to embrace the new generation of rockets is paying off for SpaceX.
It already has two Air Force missions on the books for Heavy, the first of which is expected to fly as early as mid-June.
Whether or not SpaceX can hit this target date depends on their ability to meet the rigorous certification standards for military contractsand by sticking the landing of the Falcon Heavy boosters today.
Updated 4-11-2019, 1pm ET: The estimated launch time was revised.
More Great WIRED Stories
Last month, the FDA approved esketamine, the nose spray version of ketamine, for treatment-resistant depression.
You probably know by now that ketamine is a party drug, but it actually finds far wider use as an anesthetic on the World Health Organizations list of Essential Medicines.
Scientists have a good idea of how exactly it brings about its anesthetic charms, on account of it interacting with certain receptors in the brain.
But when it comes to ketamines antidepressant effects, researchers are still largely in the dark.
But here now, a bit of light.
Today in Science, researchers report a peculiar finding in the brains of mice on ketamine.
When first fed a stress hormone to mimic the effects of depression, the rodents lost dendritic spines, tiny protrusions that help neurons transmit signals.
But when dosed with ketamine, after 12 hours, the mice began to grow back about half of those spines.
Weirdly, the researchers noticed behavioral changes almost immediately after administering ketamine, some 9 hours before they saw the regrowth of spines.
The finding cant 100 percent explain ketamines antidepressant effects, but it could also lead scientists to even more effective ketamine treatments.
Moda-Sava et al./Science First, we need to talk about how these researchers could take images of microscopic structures in a living mouses brain.
The answer, of course, is prisms and lasers.
They were specifically targeting a region called the prefrontal cortex, which you can see visualized at left.
The researchers implanted a prism on one side of the brain, so when they shone a laser through, the light would bounce off the prismwhose hypotenuse was coated in a reflective silverand hit the other side of the brain.
The implantation procedure of course damaged the prism side of the brain, but left the side they wanted to image unharmed.
Now, shining a laser into a normal mouses brain isnt going to do you any good, which is why the researchers used mice genetically engineered to express a yellow fluorescent protein in their neurons.
When the infrared laser light coming from the microscope hits these cells, it excites the yellow fluorescent protein, says study coauthor Conor Liston, a neuroscientist and psychiatrist at the Feil Family Brain and Mind Research Institute at Weill Cornell Medicine.
That fluorescent signal returns along the same optical path back into the microscope.
Thus Liston and his colleagues can get an image of neurons and their spines, which you can see above.
Baseline is the mouses brain operating normally.
Below that is following the administration of corticosterone, or CORT, a stress hormone released from the adrenal gland in response to stressful experiences.
It promotes plasticity, it promotes arousal, it can facilitate certain kinds of learning and memory, says Liston.
But prolonged exposure to elevated levels of this hormone is probably not a good thing.
Now, take a look at the post-ketamine image at the bottom of that graphic above, and you can see the resurrected spines.
The strange bit, though, is that the researchers were noticing behavioral changes in mice dosed with ketamine before they were seeing spines grow back.
What that told us was contrary to our initial expectations, says Liston.
The formation of these new spines, at least in these neurons, couldn't be required for inducing the behavioral effects, because the behavioral effects came first.
Which brings us to an important caveat with this study: mice aint people.
Their brains arent nearly as complex, and thats particularly true for the brain region targeted in this study, the prefrontal cortex.
And mice dont have anywhere near our behavioral complexity.
It's important to recognize here the mouse doesn't really have depression per se, says Yale psychiatrist Alex Kwan, who has studied the effects of ketamine on mouse brains.
It's just experiencing chronic stress and that's a model for depression, and not really a model of depression.
Really, depression goes far beyond spines on neuronsits about your genes and the chemistry sloshing around in your brain and the influences of your environment.
But what researchers can do is pick out behaviors that indicate a mouse is chronically stressed.
Theyll lose their taste for sweetened water, for instance.
This may resemble what happens in some people with depression who lose a taste for foods that they used to enjoy, says Liston.
The other important caveat to note is that these researchers didnt set out to form a complete understanding of how ketamine works on the brain.
Just as depression is the product of a cabal of conspiring factors, ketamine is working on a whole lot of biochemical levels beyond the structural aspects of the brain.
You can see, for instance, a spike in the neurotransmitter glutamate in the brain immediately after administering ketamine.
It does look like if it's a matter of bringing these brain regions back online, there may be two ways of doing it, says Yale psychiatrist Gerard Sanacora, who studies ketamine.
One is to really just turn up the stimulation, predominantly having this massive release of glutamate, but then it's actually forming these new connections that keep the circuits online.
Ketamine, then, could be exploiting the plasticity of the brainthat is, your neural structure isnt static.
So these new findings provide a potential avenue into increasing the efficacy of ketamine, whose antidepressant effects only last for a week on average.
It shows that the formation of these new connections is important for supporting ketamine's antidepressant effects, but not in the way we expected, says Liston.
It's not required for inducing them acutely, but it is required for sustaining them in the long term.
That insight could help psychiatrists extend the therapeutic effects of the drug, because there are simple ways to boost the development of neurons in the human brain.
We know that exercise promotes the birth of new neurons, it promotes the formation of new connections.
And so it's conceivable that something as simple as exercise might be useful for augmenting these effects.
And the more researchers learn about how ketamine works on the brain, the closer they get to fully exploiting its charms and abandoning its adverse effectsnamely the out-of-body experience that makes it a popular party drug but a challenging therapy.
What we're searching for is ketamine's mechanism so we can develop more targeted therapies that will have the same therapeutic benefits but without the adverse effect profiles, says neuropharmacologist Todd Gould of the University of Maryland School of Medicine, who studies ketamine.
Why all the trouble?
Because 30 to 40 percent of patients who seek treatment for depression dont get adequate treatment with current drugs like SSRIs.
Even when they eventually do, the effects are slow to buildproblematic for someone whos really struggling in the moment.
Existing medications take weeks, if not months, to typically exert the full effects, says Gould.
Ketamine does this within hours or days.
Though it doesnt work for everyone.
In ketamine, psychiatry finds a powerful tool that nevertheless remains largely mysterious.
Nothing a few prisms, lasers, and mouse brains cant fix, though.
More Great WIRED Stories
The Boston Marathon course looks like it should be fast.
You start out in the distant suburb of Hopkintonelevation 490 feet above sea leveland then cruise steadily downhill until about mile 9.
The finish line has an elevation of a mere 10 feet above Boston Harbor.
Fans pack the sides cheering you on.
The route is pretty straight, west to east, with few 90-degree turns of the sort that slow your momentum.
The road is asphalt, which is more forgiving than concrete.
So when the gun goes off Monday morning for the 123rd running of the race, everyone should feel good about hitting a personal best, right?
Of course not.
As every veteran marathon runner knows, Boston is slow, wicked, and tempestuous.
Its a wonderful course if you want to experience camaraderie, history, and emotional uplift.
Its a terrible course if you want a personal best.
The average finishing time in Boston is fairly good, but thats just because you have to qualify for it.
People run fast in other marathons so that they can get into Boston, where they will then slow down.
The mens winner in Boston last year ran 2:15, while the winner in Berlin ran 2:01.
The 10th place man ran 2:27 in Boston, a time that would have gotten him 72nd in Berlin.
The 10th place woman in Boston ran a time that would have gotten her 39th in Berlin.
Of course, one race on one day isnt a good way to analyze results.
The weather last spring on Marathon Monday in Boston was hellacious: driving wind and freezing rain.
More than 60 percent of the elite men dropped out.
So many elite women dropped out that a Spanish teacher at my Boston-area high school, who had never placed remotely as highly in a major road race before, came in fourth.
In other words, 2018 was a particularly bad year to head from Hopkinton to Kenmore Square.
But its also true that, in general, Boston is slow.
And the reason comes down to at least four factors, all of which are partly endemic to the course itself.
The first and most important is temperature.
Running quickly generates heat, which the body needs to dissipate.
The ideal temperature for running a marathon is roughly 45 degrees Fahrenheit, though the faster you are the colder you want it .
Cloud cover is probably good.
In Boston, if the suns out and youre not paying attention, youll get a sunburn on the right side of your body.
Rain, which makes roads slippery and clothes heavy, can feel good but is actually bad.
Humidity matters too, since the more vapor there is in the air, the harder it is for a runner to dissipate heat.
Bostons weather in the spring is famously unpredictable.
In 2004, temperatures on the course reached 85 degrees.
In 2007, the wind chill was in the 20s.
In 2012, it went back up into the 80s and more than two thousand runners needed medical treatment for heat-related illnesses.
Whats the weather going to be on Monday?
Not great.
Enter the current nasty forecast for Boston15 mph winds, 50 degrees, and 75 percent humidityinto a race calculator, and it suggests one should revise ones goals downward by roughly two to three minutes.
And that isnt even taking into account the hills.
The second factor affecting the speed of a course is elevation, and downhill is good.
But downhill isnt unambiguously good.
Runners have to fire their quadriceps muscles to keep from tipping over when a hill is too steep.
The wear and tear builds up over the course of a race, particularly for runners who havent been training on similar terrain.
And Boston has a series of famously steep uphills between miles 16 and 21, just when your glycogen stores are running out.
Downhill running requires a bit of braking and eccentric contractions that can wipe your legs out, says Michael Joyner, a former elite marathoner and current sports scientist.
And the hills at Boston are at exactly the right place to make people suffer as a result.
The hills dont hurt everyone the same.
I spoke with Alan Ruben, a legendary local runner who completed 15 consecutive New York City marathons in under 2:40.
His theory is that Boston is actually faster than New York, and possibly as fast as London, with its historically quick course.
Boston is a hard course to execute correctly, given where the hills are.
It sucks you into going too fast from the start, he says.
But he adds that if you take your time early on, the net downhill pays huge dividends.
The course, in other words, is hell for rookies.
But good for wily veterans who dont blow up their quads.
The third and most interesting factor is wind.
Most marathon courses finish roughly where they start, meaning that the wind will likely blow in your face as frequently as it blows at your back.
The Berlin Marathon begins on one side of the Brandenburg Gate and ends on the other.
On a course like that, you just want there to be as little wind as possible.
On courses like New Yorkwhich is roughly south to northyou want a little tailwind, though you also know that any winds blowing from the south will hit you in the face as you come down from the Bronx toward Central Park.
In general, marathon runners spend about 2 percent of their energy overcoming wind resistance on a normal day.
Boston, though, is run almost entirely west to east, which means the wind can be either entirely in your face or at your back, adding an extraordinary variability to the results.
In 2007, an easterly wind pummeled runners for the entire journey.
The winner finished in 2:14, and the wheelchair winners finished in 1:29 (men) and 1:53 (women).
In 2011, the winds reversed.
Geoffrey Mutai crossed the finish line first in the best time ever recorded there, 2:03.
The wheelchair winners came in at 1:18 and 1:34.
There are ways, of course, to deal with the wind.
Runners can draft behind each other, a strategy that could save approximately 1 percent of energy expenditure on an average day.
(This is assuming you can draft the entire time off of someone the same size as you who doesnt start spitting at about face height in frustration with you.)
That doesnt sound like much, but its the difference between running a 3:01 marathon and a 2:59.
When Eliud Kipchoge set out to break the two-hour marathon, in conditions arranged meticulously by Nike, runners arranged themselves in a V shape for the entire race to cut the wind.
On Wednesday, I spoke with Mebrahtom Keflezighi, who won the Boston Marathon in 2014.
His advice is to tuck into a group of runners, but not too tightly.
You dont want them to bump into you or knock off your stride.
And be strategic.
If the wind is coming from the front, move to the back.
If its coming from the right, move to the left.
Wind at ones back helps, unless of course theres too much.
I spoke with Amby Burfoot, who won the Boston Marathon 51 years ago, and he told the story of how it can hurt.
In 1979, I was in New Orleans for the New Orleans Marathon, a citywide tour.
The police went on strike at midnight before the marathon, and the race directors had to find a course that didnt need security.
The race took place on the Lake Pontchartrain Causeway Bridge, beginning just as a massive storm was dying down.
The wind blew directly at our backs at 30 mph for 25 miles.
Tons of people set personal records.
Not me.
I distinctly remember that the wind forced my body to go faster than it was conditioned for, and hence my legs cramped up.
The fourth factor is the number of turns.
Marathons are measured precisely so that the shortest line from the start to the finish is exactly an international standard based on the distance Pheidippides purportedly ran in 490 BC.
But almost no one can run on that exact line.
Youd have to take every turn precisely on the inside, and with every twist of the road youd have to run the tangents, which means following a precisely straight line to the furthest point you can see.
This is hard to do running on any road.
Its nearly impossible when jostling with 50,000 other runners, some of whom are dressed up as Elvis or Wonder Woman.
A decent rough estimate is that every substantial turn in a marathon slows runners down by approximately a second.
This fall, I ran both the Chicago marathon and the New York City one.
According to my GPS data, my pace was better in New York, but my overall time was better in Chicago.
How could that be?
Because the total distance I covered in Chicago, with its simpler course, was about a tenth of a mile shorter.
So how much molasses does Boston really add to your legs?
The best estimate Ive found comes from Ken Young, an obsessive analyst of running data, known as the Nate Silver or Bill James of the sport.
Over the years, he meticulously tracked runners and racers, spending roughly 50 hours a week entering numbers into spreadsheets and studying courses.
According to his data, the Berlin Marathon is the second-fastest major race around, with elites going about 81 seconds faster than they would in an average race.
(Paris tops the list.)
Boston is one of the slowest, with elites going about 90 seconds slower.
Eliud Kipchoge, who in 2018 set the world record at 2:01 in Berlin, could have put in the same effort in Boston, on a day with average weather, and finished in 2:04.
He wouldnt have even gotten the course record.
Of course no one knows what will happen on Monday.
Every runner is different, and every day is different too.
But if youre doing the race, wake up on Monday morning and refresh the weather forecast.
Pray for a cool, cloudy, rainless day.
And, most of all, pray for winds, not too strong, blowing WSW.
Also, take the advice that Keflezighi gives.
The first thing is that a marathon is going to hurt, no matter what.
And, he adds, if it rains, its going to rain on everybody.
Updated 4-11-2019, 1 pm ET: The story was updated to clarify how marathons are measured.
More Great WIRED Stories
Tech news you can use, in two minutes or less: Scientists reveal the first picture of a black hole.
It may not be how you imagined it after watching Interstellar, but you can finally see the first real picture of a black hole.
The image was taken over five days using eight telescopes, and it depicts the supermassive black hole at the center of M87, a galaxy 54 million light years away.
Facebook is changing News Feed ... again.
Facebook is taking yet another stab at halting fake news, announcing a slew of changes to News Feed.
Most of these are to restore integrity to the platform, but one of the biggest changes is something called Click-Gap.
This metric, rolled out globally today, is meant to stop content that is disproportionally viral on Facebook as compared to other places.
In other words: It won't let you be viral on Facebook if you aren't viral anywhere else on the internet.
This may be good at stopping some of the viral fake news the platform has become famous for, but bad for smaller outlets that have optimized their content specifically for Facebook.
Cocktail Conversation To combat a fast-spreading measles outbreak that has infected more than 280 people, the mayor of New York City ordered all unvaccinated people in parts of Brooklyn to get the shot or face a $1,000 fine.
Some are questioning the legality of this move, but once an outbreak gets going, it can be extremely hard to stop.
WIRED Recommends: New Kindle There's a new entry-level Kindle, and it's basically like the PaperWhite but $40 cheaper.
As long as you aren't looking to take it in the bath with you, this thing'll get the job done.
More News You Can Use
It's a big day for astronomy (and all humans, really).
The first image of a black hole has been released.
It was created using the Event Horizon Telescopea collaboration of radio telescopes around the world.
This image shows the material around a super massive black hole in the center of a galaxy some 55 million light-years away.
Yes, there is a ton of cool physics here, involving the crazy gravitational things that happen in extreme cases like a black hole.
But that's not what I want to look at.
Instead, I want to go over some of the more basic physics questions related to this image.
Is it hard to see a black hole because it's black?
Nowell, yes.
It is true that black holes are black.
We normally see things like stars and stuff because the light that they emit travels all the way to our telescopes (or straight into our eyes) and we detect them.
Black holes are indeed black.
They don't emit visible light (because of crazy gravity stuff) so you can't see them.
But that's not the big problem with a black hole.
If we had one in our solar system, you could see it.
You could see the warping of space due to its presence and you could see the stuff orbiting the black hole.
If you've seen the movie Interstellar, you might have a feeling for what a black hole would look like up close.
That visualization of a black hole was created with the help of astrophysicist Kip Thorne.
The black hole is so hard to see because it's tiny.
OK, it's not tiny in the sense of an ant.
It's tiny in the sense that a human is tiny when viewed from a mile away.
To visualize something, we need to consider not just its size but its distance.
The better term to use is the angular size.
If you turn your head all the way around in a circle, that would be a 360-degree angular view (but don't do that without also turning your body).
If you hold your thumb out at arm's length, that is about half a degree of angular size.
This is about the same angular size as the moonwhich is why you can cover up the moon with your thumb.
So, what about the size of this stuff around the black hole?
Yes, it's huge.
But it's also about 55 million light-years away.
That means it is so far away that light (traveling at 3 x 108 meters per second) would take 55 million years to get there.
It's super far.
But really, it's the angular size.
The black hole (at least the part you can see) would have an angular size of around 40 microarcseconds.
What is a microarsecond?
Well, a circle is broken into degrees (for ancient reasons).
Each degree can be broken into 60 arcminutes and each minute is 60 arcseconds.
Then if you break this arcsecond into a million piecesyou get a microarcsecond.
Remember how the moon is 0.5 degrees in angular size (as viewed from the Earth)?
That means the angular size of the moon is 45 million times greater than the size of the black hole stuff.
The black hole is angular-tiny.
Wait.
It gets worse.
Because of diffraction, we can't see angular-tiny things.
When light passes through an opening (such as a telescope or the pupil of your eye), light diffracts.
It bends in a way that interferes with the rest of the light passing through the opening.
In the case of the eye (with visible) light, this means that humans can resolve objects with an angular size of about 1 arcminute.
That means that something as angular-tiny (I'm going to keep using that phrase) as a black hole is pretty difficult to resolve to get an image.
How do you overcome the diffraction limit?
Fine.
Angular-tiny things are really difficult to seethen how do we see the stuff around a black hole?
The angular resolution of a telescope really just depends on two things: the size of the opening and the wavelength of light.
Using smaller wavelengths (like ultraviolet or x-rays) gives a better resolution.
But in this case the telescope uses a wavelength of light in the millimeter range.
This is a pretty large wavelength compared to visible light, which is in the the 500 nanometer range.
So, that's bad.
That means the only way to overcome this diffraction limit is to make a bigger telescope.
That's exactly what the Event Horizon Telescope does.
It essentially makes a telescope the size of the Earth.
That's crazy but true.
By taking data from multiple radio telescopes in different parts of the world, you can combine the data to make them into one GIANT telescope.
It's tricky, but that's what it does.
Even with this, there are some problems.
With just a handful of telescopes, the EHT group uses some analysis techniques to determine the most probable image from the data collected.
But this will allow them to get the image of some super angular-tiny thinglike the stuff around a black hole.
Is this an actual photo of a black hole?
If you look through a telescope and see Jupiter, you are actually seeing Jupiter.
Side note: if you haven't done this before, you totally should do it.
It's awesome.
The light from the sun reflects off the surface of Jupiter and then travels through the telescope and into your eye.
Boom.
Jupiter.
It's real.
That's not what is happening here with this black hole.
The image that you see isn't even in the visible range.
It's a radio image using wavelengths of light in the radio region.
So, what's the difference between radio waves and visible light?
Really, it's just the wavelength that's different.
Both light and radio waves are electromagnetic waves.
They are a propagation of a changing electric field along with a changing magnetic field (at the same time).
These waves travel at the speed of lightbecause they are light.
However, since radio and visible light have different wavelengths, they interact differently with matter.
If you turn on your radio inside your house, you can get a signal from a nearby radio station.
These radio waves go right through your walls.
Visible light, on the other hand, does NOT go through walls.
This also applies to images.
If you have visible light from an object, you can see it with your eye and you can record this image on film (yes, that's old school) or with a digital detector (a CCD camera).
This image can then be displayed with a computer monitor so that you are pretty much seeing what it actually looks like.
This is what happens when you display a visible light image of the moon.
For the stuff around the black hole, it's not a visible light image.
It's a radio image.
Each pixel on the image you see represents some particular wavelength of a radio wave.
When you see the orange parts of the image, that's a false color representation of a wavelength somewhere around 1 millimeter.
The same thing happens if you want to "see" an image from infrared or ultraviolet.
We have to convert these wavelengths to something we see.
So, that black hole image is not a normal photograph.
It's not something you could see if you looked through a telescopebut it's still really awesome.
More Great WIRED Stories
In the century since Einstein predicted the existence of black holes in his theory of gravity, astrophysicists have turned up overwhelming evidence for the things.
Theyve observed the push and pull of black holes on the orbits of nearby stars and planets.
Theyve heard the vibrations, or gravitational waves, resonating from black holes colliding.
But theyd never glimpsed a black hole face to faceuntil now.
On Wednesday, astrophysicists announced they had captured the first-ever image of a black hole.
The picture, taken over five days of observations in April 2017 using eight telescopes around the world by a collaboration known as the Event Horizon Telescope, depicts luminous gas swirling around a supermassive black hole at the center of M87, a galaxy 54 million light-years away.
Past the bright lights, though, is the black holes telltale feature: its event horizon.
The event horizon is the edge of the spacetime abyss, where gravity is so strong that no light can escape from it.
Its the point of no return, says Feryal zel of the University of Arizona, who is a member of the EHT collaboration.
In the image, it manifests itself as the sudden absence of light, she says.
Previously, researchers had captured a blobby jet of light emerging from where the M87 black hole was predicted to bebut they couldnt definitively see the black hole because their instruments were nowhere near as sharp as EHTs.
Its like going from a cheap smartphone camera to a high definition IMAX cinema, says astrophysicist Andrew Strominger of Harvard University, who was not involved in the work.
The South Pole Telescope, one of eight telescopes used to capture the first black hole image.
Dan Marrone/University of Arizona This black hole is about 6.5 billion times the mass of the sun.
Still, its tiny from a vantage point on Earth, less than 50 microarcseconds wide in the sky, which makes it about as hard to see as a donut placed on the moon.
It took eight different telescopes to image it.
The telescopes collected observational data that was synced with the precision of a billionth of a second.
To see the black holes boundary between light and dark, the astrophysicists captured radio waveslight 1.3 millimeters in wavelength, invisible to the human eyeemitted by the gas swirling around the black hole.
The gas emits light of all different wavelengths, including visible light, but the researchers chose this particular wavelength because it can sail through entire galaxies and even Earths own atmosphere without being absorbed.
But they still needed good weather at all eight of their telescope sites to see the black hole.
Before switching on their telescopes, they had to monitor the moisture in the air, says zeltoo much humidity would ruin their images.
To minimize the chance of rain, they built the telescopes in dry regions, including the South Pole and the Atacama Desert in Chile.
M87's black hole is relatively close to Earth, as the light coming from it was only emitted 54 million years agoso were seeing it at a more mature moment in its existence.
At this point in the age of the universe, black holes have calmed down, says zel.
Theyre basically eating gas trickling in from nearby stars.
M87s black hole does emit bright jets of gas, but its still pretty dim compared to younger black holes that are further away.
These younger black holes accumulate larger amounts of matter, so their swirls of luminous gas shine brighter.
To capture and interpret the first black hole image, scientists first created millions of simulations like this one.
Chi-Kwan Chan/University of Arizona It took two decades of work to capture the image.
Part of that effort was designing, building, and hauling the hardware to various telescope sites.
But they also had to anticipate what they might see by nailing down the physics of black holes as accurately as possible.
zel, who has been working on photographing a black hole since her graduate student days in 2000, says that theyve created millions of simulations of black holes, each with different mass, spin speed, or orientation, among other things.
These simulations helped inform how they designed their telescopes and where they pointed them.
But they werent just after a pretty picture.
In the zoo of astronomical objects, black holes are among the most extreme entities to exist.
A black hole, as currently understood, packs an enormous amount of mass into a single point, making itliterallyan infinitely dense object.
This density creates a huge gravitational pull into its center, which no one can peer inside.
They are the only objects in the universe that create a region of spacetime inaccessible to the rest of the universe, says zel.
Because black holes are so extreme, researchers want to study their features to see if they are consistent with the rest of general relativity.
We all feel we have an intuitive sense of what space and time are.
But Einstein told us thats true only in situations like the ones were used to, where the gravitational field is very weak, says Strominger.
When the gravitational field gets strong, there are all sorts of crazy things that happen.
Everything theyve observed so far about M87its mass and the size of its event horizonis consistent with Einstein's theory.
But future, more detailed observations could reveal unexpected features.
Strominger wants to see more detailed images of a fast-spinning black hole like M87.
According to theoretical calculations, if black holes spin fast enough, they form a wormhole in spacetime.
Future black hole images could help confirm or refute these hypotheses.
Strominger is anticipating the day when images are good enough to see a black hole with its associated wormhole.
This is really, really weird science fiction stuff, and were going to be seeing it, he says.
This image is just the beginning, says zel.
They want to pivot their telescopes toward other black holes, to amass a whole scrapbook of black hole images.
They also plan to take more, better-quality pictures of this black hole to understand it in more detail.
Now that theyve finally stared into the eyes of the beast, its time to watch how it behaves.
More Great WIRED Stories
Scientists and researchers have long extolled the extraordinary potential capabilities of universal quantum computers, like simulating physical and natural processes or breaking cryptographic codes in practical time frames.
Yet important developments in the technologythe ability to fabricate the necessary number of high-quality qubits (the basic units of quantum information) and gates (elementary operations between qubits)is most likely still decades away.
However, there is a class of quantum devicesones that currently existthat could address otherwise intractable problems much sooner than that.
These near-term quantum devices, coined Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum (NISQ) by Caltech professor John Preskill, are single-purpose, highly imperfect, and modestly sized.
WIRED OPINION ABOUT Dr. Anton Toutov is the cofounder and chief science officer of Fuzionaire and holds a PhD in organic chemistry from Caltech.
You can follow him at @AntonToutov.
Dr. Prineha Narang is an assistant professor of computational materials science at the John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences at Harvard University.
You can follow her @NarangLab.
As the name implies, NISQ devices are noisy, meaning that the results of calculations have errors, which in some cases can overwhelm any useful signal.
Why is a noisy, single-purpose, 50- to few-hundred-qubit quantum device exciting, and what can we do with it in the next five to 10 years?
NISQs provide the near-term possibility of simulating systems that are so mathematically complex that conventional computers cannot practically be used.
And chemical systems definitely fit that bill.
In fact, chemistry could be a perfect fit for NISQ computation, especially because errors in molecular simulations may translate into physical features.
Errors as features To understand this, its valuable to consider what noise is and how it occurs.
Noise arises because physical and natural systems do not exist in isolationthey are part of a larger environment, which has many particles, each of which are moving in different (and unknown) directions.
This randomness, when discussing chemical reactions and materials, creates thermal fluctuations.
When dealing with measurement and computing, this is referred to as noise, which manifests itself as errors in calculations.
NISQ devices themselves are very sensitive to their external environment, and noise is already naturally present in qubit operations.
For many applications of quantum devices, such as cryptography, this noise can be a tremendous limitation and lead to unacceptable levels of error.
However, for chemistry simulations, the noise would be representative of the physical environment in which both the chemical system (e.g., a molecule) and the quantum device exist.
This means that NISQ simulation of a molecule will be noisy, but this noise actually tells you something valuable about how the molecule is behaving in its natural environment.
With errors as features, we may not need to wait until qubits are hyperprecise in order to start simulating chemistry with quantum devices.
Materials design and discovery Perhaps the most immediate application for near-term quantum computers is the discovery of new materials for electronics.
In practice, however, this research is often done with little or no computer-based optimization and design.
This is because it is too hard to simulate these materials using classical computers (except in very idealized scenarios, such as when there is only a single electron moving in the whole material).
The difficulty comes from the fact that the electrical properties of materials are governed by the laws of quantum physics, which contain equations that are extremely hard to solve.
A quantum computer doesnt have this problemby definition the qubits already know how to follow the laws of quantum physicsand the application of NISQs to the discovery of electronic materials is an important research direction in the Narang lab.
What is special about electronic materials is that they are usually crystalline, meaning that atoms are laid out in an organized, repeating pattern.
Because the material looks the same everywhere, we dont need to keep track of all atoms, but only of a few representative ones.
This means that even a computer with a modest number of qubits may be able to simulate some of these systems, opening up opportunities for highly efficient solar panels, faster computers, and more sensitive thermal cameras.
Catalysts and chemical reactions Chemical research has been going on for centuries, yet new chemistry is most typically discovered by intuition and experimentation.
An application of quantum devices in which we are particularly interested at Fuzionaire is the simulation of chemical processes and catalysts, which are substances that accelerate chemical reactions in remarkable ways.
Catalysts are at the heart of the entire chemical industry and are relied on each day in the production of medicines, materials, cosmetics, fragrances, fuels, and other products.
Significant challenges exist, but this area is a very important opportunity for NISQ devices in the next five to 10 years.
For example, the Haber-Bosch synthesis (HB) is an industrial chemical process that turns hydrogen (H 2 ) and nitrogen (N 2 ) into ammonia (NH 3 ).
HB makes it possible to produce enough ammonia-based fertilizer to feed the world, but the process is energy-intensive, consuming approximately 1 to 2 percent of global energy and generating about 3 percent of total global CO 2 emissions.
At the heart of the entire process is a catalyst based on iron, which is only active at high temperatures and without which the process fails.
Scientists have been trying to discover new catalysts for HB that would make the chemistry more efficient, less energy-intensive, and less environmentally damaging.
However, the catalyst discovery and testing process is challenging, painstaking, and costly.
Despite many decades of tremendous effort by chemists and engineers, the iron catalyst discovered over 100 years ago remains the industrial state-of-the-art.
Near-term NISQ systems would be used to give chemists unprecedented insights into the inner workings of the current iron catalyst in its physical environment and would be applied to simulate novel, viable catalyst architectures, including those based on elements other than iron.
Molecular biology and drug discovery Biological systems are extraordinarily complex, which makes modeling and simulation very challenging.
Prediction of biological molecules and biochemical interactions with conventional computers, especially in biologically relevant environments, becomes difficult or impossible.
This forces even basic, earliest-stage biomedical research to be done by working with chemicals, cells, and animals in a lab and hoping for reproducible conditions between experiments and organisms.
This is why drug discovery, a vital area of biomedical innovation that encompasses both chemistry and biology, is such a tantalizing opportunity for NISQ intervention.
Developing new medicines for cancer, neurodegenerative diseases, viruses, diabetes, and heart disease is one of the most important activities within the entire chemistry enterprise.
However, the current reality is that bringing a new drug to market continues to be slow and costly, to the tune of about 10 to 15 years and more than $2 billion, by some estimates.
A central challenge within the drug discovery process is to identify a biological target that has relevance to human disease and to design molecules that could inhibit that target with the hope that this would treat the disease.
Quantum devices could be used to simulate common biological targets such as kinases, G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), and nuclear receptors in their dynamic environments and in complex with inhibitor molecules.
These simulations would enable drug discovery scientists to identify potentially active molecules early in the process and discard non-actives from consideration.
The most promising drug candidate molecules would then be synthesized and promoted to biological studies (e.g., pharmacology, toxicology) in the laboratory.
Cautious optimism: current and future prospects While there are great opportunities for near-term quantum devices and much hope for improved systems in the future, we must not get carried away.
Research will need to solve significant challenges, including creating systems with many more qubits, improving qubit performance, and developing coding languages for quantum computers, among others.
Nevertheless, there are great reasons to be optimistic as we look forward to the next five to 10 years.
Significant resources are being committed by large companies like IBM, Google, and Microsoft to quantum computing efforts; healthy investment is flowing into quantum hardware startup companies like Rigetti, D-Wave, IonQ, and others; and important academic results are being reported using current or near-term quantum devices, including solving lattice protein folding problems, predicting the optical response of exotic materials, investigating the mechanism of nitrogen fixation by nitrogenase, and many others.
As a professional chemist and physicist, were excited about the current capabilities and optimistic about the utility of near-term quantum devices.
Were hopeful that these systems will provide to the scientific community new insights that will accelerate discovery and help us solve problems to improve the human condition.
WIRED Opinion publishes pieces written by outside contributors and represents a wide range of viewpoints.
Read more opinions here.
Submit an op-ed at opinion@wired.com More Great WIRED Stories
On Monday, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention came out with its latest measles numbers and, lets be honest, they werent great.
At least 465 cases across 19 states have been reported so far this year, including 78 in the last week alone.
Nationwide, that means more people have caught the notoriously contagious disease in the past three and a half months than all of last year.
According to the CDC, its the second greatest number of cases reported in the US since measles was eliminated in 2000.
As outbreaks continue to spike around the country, local governments are increasingly feeling pressure to do something about them.
On Tuesday, New York City mayor Bill de Blasio declared a public health emergency in Brooklyn and issued mandatory measles vaccine requirements for people living in or near Williamsburg, the neighborhood where an outbreak has infected 285 people since last fall.
Affected individuals were told they have 48 hours to get immunized; those who dont comply risk receiving tickets or possibly facing fines of $1,000.
Its the second time this year that a local government agency has flexed its authority to impose strict measures meant to curb a measles outbreak.
In March, New Yorks Rockland County banned unvaccinated children from attending schools, visiting shopping malls, and otherwise occupying enclosed public spaces in a last-ditch effort to stem an outbreak that has tallied 168 confirmed cases since October.
These kind of controversial actions can backfire though.
In Rockland Countys case, a judge decided Friday to overturn the ban because it exceeded a five-day statutory limit on declarations of emergency.
Many law-school students spent class time Tuesday debating whether New York Citys edict will soon face a legal challenge of its own.
But the fact is, in both cases, health officials arrived at these options only after a bunch of other strategies failed.
Once an outbreak gets going, theres only so much that can be done to contain it.
Policies that would prevent such outbreaks from occurring in the first place are the purview of state legislators.
And in most places theyve made it easier, rather than more difficult, to opt out of vaccinations.
So while such emergency mandates arent ideal, public health policy experts say theyre an inevitable outcome of laws that have permitted vaccination exemptions to flourish in recent years.
As a society weve said well allow a little bit of flexibility in our laws in order to give people a wider berth to exercise their personal beliefs.
And for decades that vaccine policy has been largely effective, says Ross D. Silverman, a professor of public health law at Indiana University.
Unlike in Europe, where 11 countries have had to put some sort of compulsory vaccination policies in place, Americans have been mostly willing public health participants.
National vaccination rates for MMR, the measles vaccine, currently sit above 91 percent, close to the 94 percent cutoff that scientists believe is necessary to acquire herd immunity.
But over the last 10 years, many states have made it easier for parents to get personal exemptions for vaccinations.
Recent analyses have shown that since 2009, the number of nonmedical exemptions rose in 12 of the 17 states that relaxed their laws to allow for philosophical objections as well as religious ones.
In some anti-vaccine hot spots, exemption rates are nearing double digits.
Its been a pretty recent phenomenon that people are now saying their concerns about vaccination outweigh their concerns about infectious diseases, Silverman says.
And its starting to test the balancing act most states are trying to pull off.
At least in some places, the threat of bigger outbreaks appears to be tipping the scales toward more restrictive policies.
At least eight states, including some that experienced measles spikes this year, are now taking a harder look at their lax personal-exemption laws.
When you add up the costs of an outbreak, its not hard to see why.
A single five-month outbreak in Minnesota in 2017 that infected 79 people ran the state a tab of $2.3 million.
Stricter laws should help boost vaccine rates, but its not always enough.
In 2015, California ditched its personal-belief exemptions, making it only the third statealong with West Virginia and Mississippito have such rigid requirements.
As a result, fewer students skipped shots, and by 2018 immunization rates statewide were once again above the 94 percent threshold.
But researchers discovered that over the same time period, medical exemptions grew.
It turned out that many parents were getting around the new law by convincing doctors to grant them medical exemptions.
Thats why California is now considering a bill that would crack down on the medical exempting process, to ensure theyre reserved only for people who really need themkids whove undergone chemotherapy or organ transplants or who suffer from immune disorders.
Dorit Reiss, a professor at UC Hastings College of Law in San Francisco and a member of pro-vaccine advocacy group Vaccinate California,1 hopes that these kinds of reforms will prevent California from having to issue the kind of emergency measures currently in effect in New York City.
That was a big step.
As far as I know no ones ever used their authority this way for measles, she says.
Such actions taken to ensure public safety may be rare, but they have a long history going back to the time of smallpox.
In the 1905 case of Jacobson v. Massachusetts, the US Supreme Court gave authority to states and cities to enact compulsory vaccination policies in the event of an active outbreak that endangered public health.
Its been used over the years as precedent to swat away lawsuits from anti-vaxxers whove been ordered to keep their kids home from school during outbreaks of other vaccine-preventable diseases, including influenza and chickenpox.
But it would be nice if no one ever had to use them in the first place.
We know that outbreaks are more common the easier it is to get exemptions, and these drastic measures are clearly a response to that trend, Reiss says.
But Reiss and Silverman both say that laws are only part of the solution.
Funding public health outreach efforts to educate vaccine-hesitant parents and connect them with resources has to also be a priority for policymakers.
And until that happens, cities like New York will resort to pressuring its citizens to go under the needle.
In Rockland County, officials are appealing the decision to end the ban.
And in the meantime, they're finalizing new orders intended to keep people whove been exposed to measles at home.
At a press conference Tuesday afternoon, Rockland County executive Ed Day said the new rules could be released in a matter of days.
There is no absolute answer here, he said.
Were trying to do the best we can while respecting the civil liberties the constitution guarantees.
1Disclosure: Vaccinate California was cofounded by WIRED Ideas contributor Renee DiResta.
More Great WIRED Stories
What do you do when your phone needs to be charged?
You take a cable, plug in the phone, and boom: It's charging.
What if you want to connect an external monitor to your laptop?
Yup, there's an HDMI cable for that.
To plug your phone into speakers, you might use an auxiliary audio cable.
But here's a secret.
Inside each of those cables are multiple wires.
It doesn't matter if the cable is used for power or for datathere have to be at least two wires inside.
That is because all electric circuits depend on loops.
You can't make a loop with just one wire.
OK, there is one exception.
Wireless power and wireless data don't use two or more wires.
They use zero wires.
They are, after all, "wireless."
The Simplest Electric Circuit Perhaps the best example of an electric circuitso that you can see everythingis a single battery and a small incandescent light bulb.
(You could do this with an LED light, but connecting it to a battery is a bit more complicated.)
Let's light this bulb.
If you treat a wire like a cable, you might think you could connect it like this.
Rhett Allain But that's not how electric circuits work.
The key idea is electric current.
This is the movement of electric charges (usually negative electrons) inside the metal wire.
This flow of charges (not really a flow) is created by an electric field in the wire due to the battery.
But if there is no closed loop, the mobile charges will quickly build up on the surface of the wire to create a zero electric field with no current.
If you make a closed loop, the mobile electrons will get back to the battery, which essentially prevents these charges from building up.
Here's what that looks like.
Rhett Allain Actually, this way still only uses one wirebut there is a big difference.
There is a complete path from one end of the battery to the other.
The wire from the positive terminal connects to the side wall of the bulb.
Inside the bulb, this side wall goes to the bulb filament (the wire that glows brightly) and then down to the bottom nub on the bulb.
This bulb nub then connects to the negative terminal of the battery using a second wire.
That's a complete circuit.
Technically you could do this with just one wire and have the nub touch directly to the batterythat's still a complete circuit.
How about an animation to really visualize what's going on?
This is from an excellent online simulation from the University of Colorado Boulder's PhETyou should check it out sometime.
PhET Interactive Simulations/University of Colorado Boulder/CC BY 4.0 Notice how the moving charges in the wire make a complete loop around the circuit?
That's why you need two wires.
Using a Cable Instead of a Wire Can you make the bulb light up with a cable?
You might try something like this.
Rhett Allain This is just an Apple lightning cable.
It runs from the positive terminal of the battery to one of the connections for the light bulb (I'm using a light bulb holder).
But it doesn't work.
The bulb is off because the circuit is not complete.
But wait!
I can sort of make this work.
Remember that cables have at least two wires in them.
If you cut one open, it might look something like this.
Rhett Allain In this case, you can see that there are actually 5 wires inside one usb cable.
It's not just a single wire.
To light the bulb, I just need to pick two of these wires so that I can make a complete circuit with the battery and let current flow through the filament.
It's a little messy, but here's what it looks like.
Rhett Allain Basically, I am using two wires inside of this cable.
But because I can't connect the usb plug to the battery, I have to use some extra wires.
Oh, sureI could cut off the plug end of the cable and remove the plug part.
However, then it wouldn't look like I'm still using a cable.
Confusion Between Cables and Wires But wait!
There's a reason I'm writing about the difference between cables and wires.
I think many students in physics labs confuse these two things.
They are so used to cables, they sort of forget about complete circuits.
This is particularly obvious when students try to use a multimeter to determine the voltage or current in a circuit.
Suppose I want to use a voltmeter to measure the voltage across the light bulb in a simple circuit.
If the wire from the voltmeter were to be considered a phone cable, you would connect it like this.
Rhett Allain But this doesn't work.
The voltmeter, like just about every electrical measuring device, needs to have a complete circuit.
You need two wires to measure voltage.
Here's what it should look like.
Rhett Allain Those thick wires from the voltmeter might look like cables, but they are in fact just wires.
You need two wires to make a complete circuit.
More Great WIRED Stories
In a tiny lab at UC Berkeley, next to the whirring 3D printers on the wall, in front of an old Persian-rug-patterned couch, stands Blue the robot.
Its a pair of bulky humanoid armsonly with pincers for handsattached to a metal stand.
Wielding a pair of VR motion controllers, I wave my arms around, and Blue follows me faithfully.
Its my own robotic doppelgnger, kind of like the human-piloted, monster-fighting bots of Pacific Rim, only way cheaper.
Thats the beautiful thing about Blue.
Research on robots has for decades been hamstrung by extravagant coststhe popular research robot PR2, a pair of arms not dissimilar from Blue, will set a lab back $400,000.
Blues reliance on 3D-printed components puts its price tag much lower, at just $3,000 in materials per arm, and the goal is to get the total cost, with manufacturing at scale, to $5,000 per arm.
If Blues creators have their way, that price point will launch the robot into research stardom, forging a future in which Blues descendants do our dishes, fold our laundry, and pick up around the house.
And who knows, maybe one day they'll fight giant monsters making a mess of San Francisco.
Project Blue Historically, if you wanted to operate a robot arm, you had to keep humans far, far away, lest the machine fling them across the room.
Thats why industrial robots have been literally kept in cages.
But robots have been getting a lot better at sensing their world, in particular reacting to human contact by stopping before they hurt us.
This has led to a boom in collaborative robotics, where humans work right alongside machines.
Thats worked pretty well for a lot of existing robots, says UC Berkeley mechanical engineer David Gealy, who leads the Blue project.
But the challenge is you take an expensive industrial robot, and then you add sensors and feedback control to it and make it even more expensive.
The author pilots and (temporarily) breaks the robotic system by getting in the way of the VR motion sensors.
Blue, on the other hand, isnt particularly sensitive to human touch.
Instead, its elastic, in a sense.
As I pilot the arms around, Gealy can push on them, and the arms give way a bit instead of shutting down.
This is because the robots relatively cheap motors are backdrivable, meaning a human can grab the arms and move them around even when the machine is powered off.
Being on the cheaper side, the motors arent supremely accurate.
Blue wont hold its own against an assembly robot that has to, for example, put a tiny screw in place over and over.
But Blue is accurate enough for the tasks it will need to perform.
Those tasks will involve exploring the frontier of how robots grasp, manipulate, and interact with all kinds of objects.
This robot is designed for the assumption that in the future, robots will be controlled much more intelligently by AI systems that use visual feedback, that use force feedback, much like how humans control their own arms, says UC Berkeley's Pieter Abbeel, a robotics researcher who's overseeing the project.
Project Blue Say you want Blue to learn to fold a towel.
For a sensitive collaborative robot, that might be a tough task, because bumping into the surface of the table might trigger it to stop.
But being particularly flexible, Blue can put force on the table when reaching for the towel without freaking out.
This is how we humans do it, and how we want future machines to do it as well: We first eyeball an object, then combine that vision with a sense of touch as we begin to manipulate the object.
We dont bump into something unexpected and then shut downwe adapt and feel our way through the world.
The thing is, being super cautious isnt ideal for either us or the machines.
If youre afraid of bumping up against the table, folding a towel gets a whole lot more difficult.
If something is totally safe, it's not useful, says UC Berkeley roboticist Stephen McKinley, Blue's cocreator.
If you think about the environment we live in every day, most of the objects we interact with are not safe unless they're useless.
Everything is out there to hurt you if you want to actually fulfill a function.
Bicycles and cars are two obvious examples.
LEARN MORE The WIRED Guide to Robots The trick with robots is to mitigate that danger, which is a matter of getting them to interact more effectively with the objects in their world.
One perk of a $5,000 Blue is that labs could buy several of the robots and run learning tasks on them in parallel, speeding up the rate at which their understanding of the world improves.
Unlike children, where each has to learn their own way, with robots you can have the same brain for all of them, says Abbeel.
One robot might stumble upon a solution quicker than the others, then share that knowledge, making learning that much more efficient.
Plus, because Blue is tough, researchers can push it harder than they would a pricier machine thats more sensitive to the world around it.
The price point is amazing, says Brown University roboticist Stefanie Tellex.
Like, whoa.
It really opens up the availability of manipulator robots to a much broader audience.
$5,000, that's two laptops.
Roboticists gain may eventually be humanitys gain, if Blue can help push robotic manipulation research forward.
Giant monsters in San Francisco Bay, take note.
More Great WIRED Stories
Not enough people care enough about climate change.
It's too remote, too removed from everyday life.
Even those who acknowledge its enormity often dont see what it has to do with them personally.
So maybe this will finally break through: The Weather Channels immersive climate change experience, which puts you deep inside an inexorably changed world.
The latest in a series of roughly two-minute mixed-reality segments that place meteorologists inside extreme weather eventsyou may remember this gripping look at storm surges from last falldebuted Tuesday morning.
While climate change peppers the channel's regular coverate, this is its most directly direct examination yet of its potential impact.
And by far its most tangible.
The report starts by placing meteorologist Jen Carfagno in the year 2100, where rising sea levels have left the city of Charleston, South Carolina, broadly, perpetually flooded.
It then cuts to present-day Norfolk, Virginia, home to the largest naval base in the US, where that same crisis plays out on a near-annual basis.
Finally, it hurtles back to 1851, showing just how much ice the famed Jakobshavn glacier has shed over nearly two centuries.
Together, the three portions present a look not just at the future of climate change, but its present and past, a three-pronged effort to shake viewers out of their malaise.
Were always trying to figure out a way to tell climate change in a way that resonates with people, and its extremely difficult, says Nick Weinmiller, Weather Channel creative art director.
People tend to ignore things that arent happening right now, where they cant quantify how its affecting them.
Were constantly trying to find that story for climate change that can get people to understand whats going on and to listen to the science.
"This is happening now.
Its the canary in the coal mine, a warning sign for the future."
Matt Sitkowski, The Weather Channel The Weather Channel team stuck strictly to verifiable data for its glimpses of the present and past; the Norfolk segment draws directly from National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration tide gauges, while Jakobshavns recession has been meticulously documented over the decades.
The message is simple but effective: You cant punt on climate change.
You dont have to show these worst-case scenarios all the time, says Weather Channel executive weather producer Matt Sitkowski.
When were in Norfolk, the waters not waist-high on our talent.
Its showing that theres water covering the streets and the roads.
Its not that deep, but this is it.
This is happening now.
Its the canary in the coal mine, a warning sign for the future.
When it came to depicting the future of climate change, the Weather Channel chose to focus on the year 2100.
The 81-year jump is close enough that some children alive today will still be around to see it, and climate scientists often use 2100 as a convenient end point for projections.
As for location, the team opted to show the effects on Charleston, rather than a more obvious target like Miami, for a stab at a fresh perspective.
Even narrowing down to Charleston 2100, though, left the Weather Channel with plenty of latitude for its presentation.
Climate change projections have ranges, after all, from the most optimistic outcomes to broad devastation.
Sitkowski says that while they sourced their sea level estimates from NOAA and the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, they again opted for a higher-end scenario rather than the worst case.
Its really hard to figure out how to make impactful scenes from climate change without going to extreme, end-of-the-world type of scenarios, where you see all this terrible stuff that could happen, says Weinmiller.
I think people might call baloney on that kind of thing and dismiss it.
While visually compelling, the segment points to no specific causes of climate change, mentioning only that warnings were ignored.
And it offers no prescriptions for fixing it.
The Weather Channel is understandably limited by the constraints of a roughly 90-second television piece, but its relatively narrow view of the problem may limit its effectiveness.
Information has some positives but is not, alone, helpful, says Janet Swim, a psychologist at Penn State University who focuses on how people respond to social and environmental problems.
Swim has not seen the Weather Channel's presentation, but in an email to WIRED she stresses the importance of realistic, digestible information about the science behind climate change, and what businesses and communities are already doing to combat it.
To turn communication into action, you need to make it personal.
If there is not an emotional connection to the place harmed, it can confirm that the problem is for others, not them, to worry about, writes Swim.
That, in part, is why one recently published, highly detailed map of how climate change will affect 540 North American cities went viral.
No matter where you live in the US, it can show you whats in store: Washington, DC, for instance, will feel more like East Texas by 2080; San Francisco is headed for Los Angeles conditions.
The reason we got a lot of attention was partly timing; there seems to be a lot more climate change in the news, says Matt Fitzpatrick, an ecologist at the University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science and lead author of the paper behind the map.
And also because we did a very large number of cities, and a very large number of scenarios.
LEARN MORE The WIRED Guide to Climate Change What the Weather Channels simulation lacks in breadth, it makes up for with flair.
And that might count for something.
Weve seen an increase in extreme events and things like that, but most of the changes are relatively gradual.
Theres kind of a new normal all the time.
People slowly adjust to it and dont realize how much things have changed since they were younger, says Fitzpatrick.
Research bears this out as well.
I think we just need people to grasp the magnitude of the problem.
As with previous immersive experiences, the climate change segment takes advantage of Unreal Engine, a suite of tools made by Fortnite creator Epic.
The team films in a specially outfitted studio with a Mo-Sys camera tracking system, which allows a camera to operate in a virtual space.
And whereas the Weather Channel created its viral storm surge video with the help of the Future Group, a mixed-reality studio, it has since brought those creative duties in-house, a move that Weinmiller says helps them adjust better on the fly.
Given the cadence of one immersive segment a month, that adaptability comes in handy.
The Weather Channel was working on finishing its climate change video late into the night Monday; the water simulations have proven difficult.
Theyre missing shading and shadowing, so they dont have a lot of depth to them right now, says Weinmiller.
They come out very white and bright, because the shading was an extra complexity that the engine couldnt handle without glitching and performance issues.
That extra dose of realism matters more than you might think.
Knowing intellectually that Charleston will be underwater is a far cry from seeing it.
Maybe closing that gap is the difference between awareness and action.
"Anything that can help people imagine what the future will look likewhich is otherwise invisiblecan be a very powerful communication tool," says Anthony Leiserowitz, director of the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication.
"It depends on the actual visualization though, how realistic and convincing it is."
Will richer detail of the splash an iceberg chunk makes when it falls into the water jolt viewers out of complacency?
Will Norfolk as it really is carry as much weight as what Charleston will become?
At this point, we're already barreling toward climate hell.
Anything that helps is worth a shot.
This story has been updated to include comment from Anthony Leiserowitz.
More Great WIRED Stories
The duck is famous for two things: really liking bread (even though theyre not supposed to be eating it), and wielding insanely complicated reproductive bits.
More specifically, male ducks have corkscrew-shaped penises, while females reproductive tracts corkscrew in the opposite direction.
Its a disturbing consequence of an evolutionary arms race, the females countermeasure to notoriously aggressive males.
But you know who tends to get short shrift for their own bizarrely complicated reproductive system?
That would be the rhino.
Specifically, a female rhinos cervix, a long canal leading into the vagina, swerves and squiggles all over the place.
Its composed of a number of interlocking ridges or rings that makes it look like a number of S's connected to each other for 8 to 12 inches, says Barbara Durrant, director of reproductive sciences at the San Diego Zoo.
It's like Lombard Street in San Francisco, where it's just back and forth, back and forth.
This has suited the rhino perfectly fine over evolutionary history, but now its yet another detriment to the survival of its kind.
Because of habitat loss and poaching, the northern white rhino in particular is nearing obliteration, extinct in the wild with just two femaleswho aren't even reproductively viableleft in captivity.
But now the San Diego Zoo has partnered with roboticists at UC San Diego to pursue a new solution: a snakelike robot to navigate that chaotic cervix and deposit an embryo in the uterus.
If it works, it could mean the salvation of the northern white rhino.
Oh, and you can help make that a reality, because its being crowdfunded.
UC San Diego The robot would be deployed on a close relative of those two remaining northern white rhino females, the southern white rhino.
These animals are subspecies, so if done correctly, one could carry the embryo of the other.
(One good indication of that compatibility is the two can hybridize naturally.)
The problem is that we dont have any northern white rhino eggs, though we do have small amounts of preserved sperm.
So researchers have to try to create their own eggs using a process thats been proven in mice.
The idea is to take skin cells from the surviving northern white rhinos and realign them by biochemically manipulating certain genes to turn back the clock, returning them to a state where theyre pluripotent, meaning they can differentiate into almost any cell type in the body.
So we take them backwards and then we send them forward again but in a different direction, so they're not going to become skin cells again, says Durrant.
If we can make sperm and eggs in vitro from northern white rhino cells that are living cell lines, then we can use those to fertilize each other and make pure northern white rhino embryos.
Thats just the start.
Next the team would need to somehow get that fertilized embryo up Lombard Street into the uterus of a southern white rhino surrogate.
Which is where the newfangled robot, which was originally developed for human use in procedures like colonoscopies, comes in.
They have to navigate really tortuous and complex twisting channels, says UCSD roboticist Michael Yip, who developed the system.
So several 180 degree turns over and over that conventional tools, anything that's handheld or developed previously, would basically not make it past the first turn.
Yips robot doesnt work like any other youve seen before.
(Unless you saw our lovely video of the inflatable vinebot, which uses a similar mechanism to steer.)
In contrast to, say, a humanoid robot with traditional electric motors moving its joints, it uses a series of tendons running along its length.
Tug on a tendon on the left side of the device, and it turns left.
Tug on a tendon on the right side of the device, and it turns right.
What then you can do is secure more and more tendons along the length of the device, says Yip.
You can coordinate all those tendon motions like you're marionetting a puppet so that you can get S shapes, and you can get torques and twists out of the system.
An operator controls the robots moves by relying on a camera at the end of the device, helping the robot to navigate the maze that is the rhino cervix.
To complete the journey, it would also have a delivery system to place the embryo in the uterus.
(The robot could also in the nearer term deliver sperm, as opposed to an embryo, to artificially inseminate other rhino species.)
Ken Bohn/San Diego Zoo By this point youre probably wondering: Well, we have a good idea why ducks have such goofy reproductive systems, but why rhinos?
The only thing I can think really, and it's pure speculation, says Durrant, is because the fetus and placenta of a rhino are so large, and there's so much fluid, that the cervix has to be large and muscular and complicated to make sure that that fetus stays in the uterus.
There is, after all, a condition in human women called incompetent cervix, in which weak cervical tissue leads to miscarriage.
But then again, elephants have massive fetuses too, and their reproductive systems arent so complex.
Regardless, the mission here isnt to decode the evolutionary reproductive history of the rhino, but to save the rhino.
Our end goal is to produce a self-sustaining population of northern white rhinos, first in captivity and then back into their natural habitat in Africa, says Durrant.
This is not a one-off kind of scientific endeavorthis is a true conservation effort.
Accordingly, the northern white rhino is going to need a whole lot more help other than from clever robots.
Its going to need an end to the poaching that has nearly obliterated its kind.
It's not just the science, Durrant.
It's how we can use science to get them back to a conserved and preserved and restored habitat.
All this fancy science to nurture the rhino population is for naught if humans put the creatures right back in peril.
More Great WIRED Stories
In debates about the future of work, technology is often portrayed as the villain.
One recent study calculated that 38 percent of jobs in the United States were at a high risk of being automated during the next decade.
In the construction industry, predictions are especially dire: Estimates of robot-fueled joblessness range from 24 percent in Britain to 41percent in Germany.
WIRED OPINION ABOUT Borja Garca de Soto is an assistant professor of civil engineering at New York University Abu Dhabi (NYUAD), a Global Network assistant professor of civil and urban engineering at the NYU Tandon School of Engineering, and director of NYUADs S.M.A.R.T.
Construction Research Group.
There is no question that automation will change the way people work, but for some sectors of the economy, change is long overdue.
Nowhere is this truer than in architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC).
For an industry with nearly $10 trillion in annual revenueabout 6 percent of global GDPits performance is not great.
Worldwide, the average big construction project takes 20 percent longer to complete than planned and runs a staggering 80 percent over budget.
Although most sectors of the construction industrysingle-family residential construction; multi-family residential construction; highway, road, and bridge construction; and industrial constructionhave improved over the past few decades (for example, the 200616 rate of productivity growth was 5.3 percent in industrial construction), productivity could be growing faster, making the construction industry much more efficient.
There are many factors contributing to the low efficiency of the AEC industry; these include low capital investment compared with other sectors, hazardous site conditions, project complexity, economic disruption, lack of transparency, and corruption.
One of the biggest impediments, however, is a shortage of skilled workers.
According to a 2017 study by the Associated General Contractors of America, 70 percent of contractors in the US struggle to hire skilled craft workers.
This comes as hiring needs in the industry are expected to grow 12 percent by 2026.
Simply put, automating elements of the construction process is more than good engineering; it is also smart business.
Research into the field of construction robotics started decades ago.
During Japans building boom in the 1980s, for example, a shortage of workers led industry groups to invest in designing automated systems.
These efforts failed in part because computing power was still weak.
And yet, while technology has evolved significantly since then, the industry has not.
Some of the worlds largest firms still do everything on paperfrom managing supply-chain orders and blueprints to keeping track of employee hours and pay.
The benefits of construction automation are no longer theoretical; increasingly, researchers are proving robots worth.
Before joining NYU Abu Dhabiwhere I lead an interdisciplinary team that is studying construction-sector innovationI supervised graduate students at ETH Zurich, where we investigated how digital fabrication affects productivity.
What we found supports the view that technology can be a boon to the AEC business.
LEARN MORE The WIRED Guide to Robots By comparing the cost and time spent on human-built walls to walls built by robots, we found that as the level of complexity increases, automation pays off.
Additionally, in the robot-built walls, architects, designers, engineers, and contractors had more flexibility to make late-stage adjustments without greatly increasing costs or causing delays.
Finally, we gauged that simpler structures can be built more efficiently by people, leading us to conclude that humans and robots will coexist on construction sites for many years to come.
To be sure, caution must be taken when extrapolating lessons from studies like this one.
In the real world, every construction project has its own unique challenges and complex interactions between owners, designers, contractors, and the public.
By contrast, the wall-construction project we studied was collaborative by design.
Still, the findings do provide another piece of evidence that the benefits of construction automation can no longer be ignored.
Some in the AEC industry already recognize this.
Architects like Frank Gehry and Zaha Hadid were early advocates of robotic design, and some cities are embracing automation with vigor.
In Dubai, for example, new regulations require that by 2025, every building must be constructed with 25 percent of its material from 3D-printed sources.
Even forward-thinking contractors are turning to single-task robots for jobs like bridge painting, concrete blasting, welding, rebar tying, and road repair.
And yet, despite the many benefits, construction automation remains the exception.
To move the discussion from the margins to the mainstream, a number of key changes will be needed.
For starters, the AEC industry must improve its communication processes.
Because cost overruns are often linked to gaps in the design and implementation phases, improving how information is shared among project stakeholders is essential if technologies are to be effective.
One solution: standardized and automated building information protocols.
Second, the industry must prioritize economies of scale by encouraging the adoption of similar technologies.
Automation will only be cost-effective when tools and techniques are used widely.
Third, the industry should strengthen its project-performance assessments.
Financial risks from new technologies are greatest when they are introduced without proper cost-benefit analysis.
Only with regular reviews will it be possible to evaluate the benefits gained from automating parts of the construction process.
Finally, governments need to do more to facilitate the transition to automated systems.
Ultimately, it will be the public sector that determines technologys place in the construction industry.
At the moment, however, visionary leadership is lacking.
For instance, in many regions, building codes and officials make it very difficult to advance the use of 3D-printed structures.
To take full advantage of automations potential, municipal regulations and building codes must keep pace.
Although it will take more time to assess how digitalization and automation might affect supply chains, business models, employment, cybersecurity, and AEC project delivery, there is growing consensus that new processes and technologies are critical to improving construction productivity.
To ensure that the transition to a more automated construction site is as smooth as possible, it is time for researchers and industry practitioners to join forces and explore new alternatives.
WIRED Opinion publishes pieces written by outside contributors and represents a wide range of viewpoints.
Read more opinions here.
Submit an op-ed at opinion@wired.com More Great WIRED Stories
With sea levels expected to rise at least 26 inches by the end of the century, due to human-driven climate change, to say that we have a problem is an understatement.
By the middle of the next century, many of the worlds major cities will be flooded, and in some cases, entire island nations will be underwater.
The people who live there will have to relocate.
But to where?
On Wednesday, the United Nations Human Settlements Program, or UN Habitat, convened its first roundtable to discuss the possibility of floating cities as a solution to this problem.
Held at its headquarters in New York City, on the banks of the East River, the location was fitting given that the room itself might be underwater within a century.
The specific proposal that dozens of scientists, engineers, artists, and investors came to discuss was Oceanix City, which aspires to create a scalable platform for the seafaring civilizations of tomorrow.
OCEANIX/BIG-Bjarke Ingels Group Borrowing its name from the company that created it, Oceanix City is the latest seasteading venture of Marc Collins, French Polynesias former minister of tourism and something of a floating-cities veteran.
In 2017 he also cofounded Blue Frontiers, which aims to build floating homes, offices, and hotels off the coast of his home country.
Unlike Blue Frontiers, however, Collins says that Oceanix City was created with a more egalitarian spirit in mind.
No one is out to build a luxury product for the rich, Collins says.
That isnt on the table.
Instead, its about trying to create floating cities that meet the needs of the people whose coastlines are at risk of getting swallowed up.
Oceanix City was designed by the renowned Danish architect Bjarke Ingels, along with dozens of experts from institutions like the UN and MIT.
According to Ingels, who lives on a houseboat himself, residents of the floating city will use 100 percent renewable energy, eat only plant-based food, produce zero waste, and provide housing affordable to all, not just the rich.
Although most cities struggle to hit even a handful of these goals, Ingels and Collins were confident that they could be accomplished in the challenging oceanic environment.
At the core of Oceanix City is a 4.5-acre hexagonal floating platform that is meant to host up to 300 people.
These platforms are modular, meaning they can be linked to form larger communities as they tessellate across the surface of the ocean.
Each platform will be anchored to the ocean floor using biorock, a material that is harder than concrete and can be grown using minerals found in the ocean, which could make the anchor more secure over time.
These anchors might also serve as the seeds of artificial reefs to rejuvenate aquatic ecosystems around the floating city.
OCEANIX/BIG-Bjarke Ingels Group The exact design of each platform will be determined by the communitys needs and the citys location, said Ingels.
Some, for example, could act as barriers to limit the impact of waves, while others could be dedicated to agriculture.
But every platform will play a role in keeping the floating city sustainable: by hosting aeroponic grow houses, submerged gardens for growing scallops and other seafood, or desalination equipment that would run on renewable energy.
Although all the platforms are designed to withstand a category 5 storm, Collins says they will initially be placed in locations that are generally sheltered from extreme weather events.
Many of the technologies needed to bring this vision from paper to reality are still in their infancy, such as passive desalination and high-efficiency wave power generators.
So Collins and Ingels are also casting the floating city as a kind of incubator for the sustainable technologies of tomorrow.
Any technologies developed along the way could also be used by communities on land, just in case this whole floating-cities thing doesnt take off.
Political hurdles also stand in the way, particularly when it comes to who, exactly, will be in charge of these floating cities.
The plan for the first Oceanix City is to moor it about a mile off the coast of a major city.
If one of these ocean-top communities were to get parked near New York City, for example, the floating community could be treated as a new borough, or a separate city under the jurisdiction of the state, or it might look more like Washington, DC, which didnt have its own local government for most of its history.
Those questions have all been kicked down the road, but as Victor Kisob, deputy executive director of UN Habitat, noted, they are of critical importance for the projects success.
The idea of living on the surface of the ocean is hardly new.
Various cultures around the world have lived on the water for centuries, and manylike the Uros people in Peru with their reed islands, or the Bajau tribe in Southeast Asia, who live on houseboatscontinue to do so to this day.
In recent years, the prospect of living on the sea has also captured the imagination of Silicon Valley venture capitalists, who see it as a way to save themselves from rising tides and pesky government oversight.
OCEANIX/BIG-Bjarke Ingels Group The rise of this centuries-old idea in techno-libertarian circles is due, in no small part, to the efforts of Peter Thiel.
In 2008, Patri Friedman, a libertarian theorist and grandson of famed free-market economist Milton Friedman, founded the Seasteading Institute, a nonprofit dedicated to creating an autonomous floating city.
Riding on a donation of $1.7 million from Thiel, the Seasteading Institute began to make plans for a colony off the coast of French Polynesia.
In 2011, Thiel resigned from the board of the Seasteading Institute, a decision he later justified to The New York Times by saying the plan was not quite feasible from an engineering perspective.
Still, the Seasteading Institute continued on with its mission, and in 2017 its president, Joe Quirk, cofounded Blue Frontiers with Collins.
That same year, Blue Frontiers and the Seasteading Institute signed an exploratory memorandum of understanding with the government of French Polynesia to develop the concept of a floating city, described by Quirk as a start up country, near the island.
In 2018, the French Polynesian government reneged on its agreement and let its MOU with the Seasteading Institute and Blue Frontiers expire after facing criticism from local residents, according to a report from Radio New Zealand.
Blue Frontiers website says the company is still negotiating with French Polynesia and is also discussing its plans with other countries, but Collins, who is no longer active in the organization, says the last he heard, the French Polynesian government was being silent on the issue.
In November, only months after this blow to Blue Frontiers plans, Collins left the company and founded Oceanix to give floating cities another shot without the ideological baggage.
Theres a radical change in the approach, which is why were doing this with the United Nations, Collins says.
The approach is, what is it the countries are actually asking for and what are the needsas opposed to, We would like to build floating infrastructure because we have this philosophy, and seeing if the countries will let us in.
For now, Oceanix City is little more than a slideshow, a slick architectural model, and an ambitious dream.
But this unveiling at the UN was the first step in making it a reality.
In the immediate future, Collins says, he plans to convene a 25-person brain trust that will regularly meet to plot the next steps for Oceanix City.
This group will be faced with the tall order of bringing a futuristic floating city to fruition.
As the oceans reclaim our cities, a radical rethinking of where and how we live will have to take place.
Whether floating cities are the answeror whether their proponents can muster the political and economic capital they needis much less certain.
More Great WIRED Stories
Jumping on a trampoline sounds pretty fun.
Jumping on a trampoline while it's rolling down a dirt road looks even cooler.
That's exactly what Dunkin Devils, a stunt team based in Slovenia, did in a recent Instagram post.
It looks so awesome, it almost seems impossible.
Of course, it's not magicit's just physics.
In particular, it's a great example of projectile motion.
Loading View on Instagram Suppose you throw some object near the surface of the earth.
If the only significant force on the object is the constant downward gravitational force, we call this "projectile motion."
Yes, that tennis ball you loft across the room is projectile motion.
Flipping a cointhe center of mass is in projectile motion.
As you can probably guess, a dude jumping on a moving trampoline is also an example of projectile motion.
For these kinds of motions, the following must be true: The horizontal and vertical motion of the object are independent (except for the total time).
The vertical acceleration is constant (at 9.8 m/s 2 ).
).
The horizontal velocity is constant.
That's pretty much it.
You can do a whole bunch of cool physics things using just those three ideas.
With that in mind, let me show you my favorite projectile motion demonstrations.
Dropping and Shooting What happens if you shoot a ball horizontally and drop one from the same height at the same time?
Check this out (it's in slow motion): Rhett Allain Did you notice that the two balls start at the same height and hit the ground at the same time?
It doesn't matter that one ball has a horizontal velocity, since this motion is independent of the vertical motion.
Both balls start with the same vertical position and the same vertical velocity (zero m/s), so they have the same motion in the vertical direction and hit the ground at the same time.
Pretty cool, right?
This motion was created with a special device that shoots and drops two balls, but you can do something similar with just some coins.
Put one coin on the edge of a table, so that it is just about to fall off.
Take the other coin and flick it towards the edge coin.
When they hit, the two coins will dropbut with different horizontal velocities.
They will still hit the floor at the same time.
Here is a slow-motion example of that.
Rhett Allain But wait!
There's more.
What if you shot the horizontal ball at some superfast bullet-like speed?
Maybe you could do this with an actual bullet?
The MythBusters did this in one of their episodes.
(I'm also a consultant on the show.)
The trick still works, but you have to use a heavy bullet so that air resistance can be ignored.
Vertical Motion on a Horizontal Cart Historically, this is called the howitzer cart physics demo.
A car is moving along at a constant speed on a horizontal track.
At some point during its motion, the cart shoots a ball straight up in the air.
Boom.
The ball lands right back in the cart.
Here's what that looks like.
Rhett Allain What's going on here?
Actually, this is a lot like the previous demo, which shows that the vertical and horizontal motion of a projectile are independent.
In this case, the launched ball has the same horizontal velocity as the cart.
Since the cart and ball have the same horizontal velocity, the ball always stays over the cart and lands right back in it.
The same thing is happening with the jumpers on the moving trampoline.
You can try this on your own too.
Just get in a car (have someone else drive) and wait until there is a part of the road that is straight and level.
While the car maintains a constant speed, toss the ball up in the air (inside the car) and then catch it.
You just did the same thing as the trampoline peoplebut it doesn't look as cool.
If you were able to see this tossed ball from outside the car, maybe it would look better.
But it's the same thing.
A Water Hose Is Projectile Motion If you take a garden hose and shoot the water at an angle, it's essentially projectile motion.
Rememberas long as an object only has the gravitational force acting on, its motion will be projectile motion.
If you consider each little water molecule in the stream, this isn't completely the case.
The water molecule interacts with the rest of the water around it.
However, most of these interactions add up in a way that they either cancel out or are negligible.
In the end, you get water that acts like projectile motion.
Rhett Allain Oh, I even looked at the trajectory of a water path to show that it is indeed parabolicjust like projectile motion should be.
If you don't want to pull out your hose, you can also do this with a cup or a can.
Try putting a small hole near the bottom of the cup and then fill it with water.
The water will shoot out horizontally, just like projectile motion.
But the cool part about this demo is that the initial speed of the water leaving the cup depends on the depth of the water.
As the water drains, the "launch" speed also decreases.
Rhett Allain Now for something else to try.
Take your leaking cup of water and drop it.
While it's falling there won't be any water coming out of the hole.
Why?
Now that the cup (and the water) are falling, there is no longer any gravitational pressure to push the water out of the cup since the cup is also falling.
Or, you could explain this the Einstein way: Since you are falling with an acceleration equal to the gravitational field, there is no gravity in the reference frame of the falling cup.
No gravity means nothing pushing the water down and out through the hole.
Two Balls Launched at Different Angles Suppose you take a ball and launch it from the ground with an initial velocity that is some angle above the horizontal (call that angle ).
After the ball leaves the launcher (or whatever got it moving), it moves up and then back down.
At the same time it travels horizontally.
The greater the vertical velocity, the longer the ball is in the air and the more time it has to travel horizontally.
However, as you launch at greater angles the horizontal velocity gets smaller.
So, you have a problem.
If you launch at too high of an angle, the ball will be in the air for a long time but with such a small horizontal velocity that it doesn't go very far.
If you launch at too low of an angle the ball has a large horizontal velocity but the time is very short.
You probably know that the greatest projectile distance happens with a launch angle of 45 degrees (warningthis is only true on flat surfaces).
But maybe you didn't know that there are two different angles that achieve the same range.
If you shoot a ball with a launch angle of 25 degrees and another with a 65 degree launch angle, they travel the same distance.
Here, check it out.
This is a Python model for these two balls.
If you want to run the model again, click the Play button.
Or better yet, click the pencil icon and you can edit the code.
You could change the launch angles and see what happens to the range.
It will be fun.
Shoot the Falling Target I saved the best for last.
Imagine that you have a ball launcher and you want to hit some target that is hanging from the ceiling.
How would you aim?
If you aim straight at the target, the launched ball will travel in a parabolic path and end up below the target for a miss.
You could probably calculate the correct launch angle (aim higher than the target) so that you hit it.
Now suppose that as soon as you launch the ball, the target falls.
The target is accelerating downward as the ball is traveling towards it.
Could you hit a falling target like this?
The answer: yes.
Check this out.
Rhett Allain This seems crazy, doesn't it?
What's going on?
Perhaps it's best to look at this situation in the free-fall reference frame.
Imagine that as soon as the ball is shot from the launcher, you start falling.
Now you, the ball, and the target are all accelerating downward at 9.8 m/s2.
In this accelerating frame, it's as if there is no gravity at all.
The ball moves in a straight line and hits the target (which just remains stationary).
In the non-falling reference frame, the ball and the target have the same vertical acceleration.
This means that the change in trajectory of the ball due to gravity exactly matches the change in position of the falling target.
The result is a hit.
I really like this demo.
The version you see above uses an electromagnet to hold up the target.
There is a photosensor on the end of the launcher such that when the ball leaves, it breaks the infrared beam.
With this break in the beam, the electromagnet turns off and drops the ball.
My plan is to build a simpler version that uses an electromagnet that turns off when the ball leaves and pushes open a tiny switch.
Maybe I will build that one someday soon.
More Great WIRED Stories
The idea behind the guillotine is this: If youre going to execute someone, you may as well do it efficiently and humanely, at least by 18th-century standards.
Decapitating the condemned with an ax or sword may take a few swingsunacceptable for carrying out justice in a "civilized" society.
The guillotine, on the other hand, is downright surgical, a perversely methodical way to end a life.
Now mosquitoes are getting the same treatment in the pursuit of a vaccine for malaria, a disease that killed 440,000 people in 2016.
To produce a vaccine for mass deployment, biotech firm Sanaria has to decapitate and dissect out the salivary glands, which hold the malaria-causing parasite, for each individual mosquitoby hand.
To speed up this painstaking process, theyve partnered with medical roboticists from Johns Hopkins University to engineer a mosquito guillotine that technicians can use to decapitate 30 insects at a time.
Its a first step toward an eventual goal of a fully automated robotic guillotine, which could help Sanaria produce that elusive mass-produced, effective malaria vaccine.
Despite decades of work, a malaria vaccine is still not widely available.
The first reason is the complex life cycle of the microbe that causes malaria, Plasmodium falciparum.
Unlike a bacteria or virus, which tend to have relatively simple life cycles, this protozoan parasite develops both in mosquitoes and in humans.
In particular, the challenge is targeting the parasite in one particular cell type before it invades anothersay, from the liver to red blood cellsbecause each stage is brief.
We don't have any vaccines in widespread human use against parasites, says Ashley Birkett, director of PATHs Malaria Vaccine Initiative, who wasnt involved in this research.
They're extremely complex.
Two, the idea behind a vaccine is to encourage the bodys own immune system to fight an invader.
A flu vaccine, for instance, uses a deactivated version of the virus to trick your body into ramping up production of antibodies, which protects you from the real flu virus out in the wild.
But with the malaria parasite, researchers are finding that the immune response you need to protect against this parasite is far higher than with a bacteria or virus vaccine.
In some cases we're talking orders of magnitude higher immune responses, says Birkett.
The protective responses might only last for six months.
One of the key challenges in developing more effective malaria vaccines is really to understand how can we induce immune responses that can persist at a level that's needed to provide high-level protection for many years.
Even with all these challenges, one promising malaria vaccine called RTS,S, made by GSK, underwent trials in Africa.
It uses a single protein from the parasite, which is thought to induce production of antibodies that prevent the parasite from entering liver cells, where the fiend matures.
In a group of children between 5 months and 17 months old, RTS,S reduced malaria by about 40 percent, meaning it can prevent up to 4 out of 10 malaria cases.
Accordingly, the World Health Organization is now coordinating a pilot introduction of the vaccine, expected to reach around a million children in Ghana, Kenya, and Malawi.
What Sanaria is developing is a bit different.
Instead of using a single protein from the parasite, theyre using entire parasiteswhich come with more than 5,000 proteinsdeactivated with low doses of radiation.
Sanarias vaccine, called PfSPZ, is thought to work by inducing killer T cells to attack the parasites in the human body as theyre developing in the liver.
In a study conducted in malaria-ravaged Mali, published in 2017, researchers found that 66 percent of adult participants given the vaccine still ended up developing a malaria infection, compared to 93 percent of participants given a placebo.
(Malaria vaccine experts warn that its difficult to directly compare the efficacy of one vaccine versus another, since the testing locations and participant populations differ.)
To manufacture PfSPZ, which is currently in phase two clinical trials, they need whole parasites.
Accordingly, Sanarias technicians are highly trained in the delicate operation that is manual mosquito dissection.
One by one, we grasp each mosquito by its abdomen and then we sever its head from the body and squeeze out the glands, says Sumana Chakravarty, Sanaria's managing director of vaccine extraction, immunology, and model systems.
That squeezing process just ensures that the gland and the immediate surrounding material comes out of the mosquito, which is where our precious parasites reside, but nothing else.
These mosquito surgeons train for six hours a day, three days a week, for two months to become proficient in the art.
When Sanaria started the vaccine production campaign, a dissector could extract parasites from about 60 mosquitoes per hour.
Now, given all that training, theyve got folks that can do an average of 300 mosquitoes per hour.
Automating the process, even partially, would theoretically boost that rate even higher.
Which is all the more important when you consider that it takes one mosquito to make one dose of the PfSPZ vaccine, and there are 3.2 billion people exposed to malaria worldwide, with around 200 million contracting the disease a year.
Which brings us to the mosquito guillotine.
We came up with the idea that if you could sort mosquitoes into these cartridges, once the mosquito was in a cartridge with its head and neck and thorax in well-defined positions, you could then perhaps cut off all the heads at once and squeeze the glands all at once and then collect them, says Johns Hopkins University engineer Russ Taylor, who helped develop the system.
This has had a big impact on the time it takes to train technicians: With manual dissection, it takes anywhere from 60 to 120 hours to get to the 300 mosquitoes-per-hour rate; with the device its more like 4 to 6 hours of training.
Is no job safe, then, from the robotic takeover?
Well, thats not quite how automation works, especially in this context.
In the near term, robots may be more likely to take over parts of your job.
Think about the word processor: Its introduction made workers more productive, not redundant.
Same principle with the mosquito guillotinehumans are still in the loop and probably always will be to some degree.
Our goal is to get it perfect, so when we do institute the robotic approach we can really take off, says Steve Hoffman, CEO and chief scientific officer of Sanaria.
So why all this effort?
Why pursue two kinds of malaria vaccine, if they're both showing efficacy?
Because they each have their own strengths.
"The PfSPZ vaccine has been shown to prevent infection risk in adults across an entire malaria season, which RTS,S has not been shown to do," says Patrick Duffy, who studies malaria at the NIH and has collaborated with Sanaria in the past on field efficacy trials.
On the other hand, RTS,S has been shown to reduce clinical malaria in children, which PfSPZ has not been shown to do, Duffy adds.
Really, the fact that we've gotten to this point in the war against malaria is a feat of science.
Just decades ago, there was a lot of skepticism that a malaria vaccine would ever be possible.
I think the question is no longer, will there ever be a vaccine?
Duffy says.
It will be, how far can we get with a malaria vaccine?
More Great WIRED Stories
If a woman (or non-female-identifying person with a uterus and visions of starting a family) is struggling to conceive and decides to improve their reproductive odds at an IVF clinic, theyll likely interact with a doctor, a nurse, and a receptionist.
They will probably never meet the army of trained embryologists working behind closed lab doors to collect eggs, fertilize them, and develop the embryos bound for implantation.
One of embryologists more time-consuming jobs is grading embryoslooking at their morphological features under a microscope and assigning a quality score.
Round, even numbers of cells are good.
Fractured and fragmented cells, bad.
Theyll use that information to decide which embryos to implant first.
Its more gut than science and not particularly accurate.
Newer methods, like pulling off a cell to extract its DNA and test for abnormalities, called preimplantation genetic screening, provide more information.
But that tacks on additional costs to an already expensive IVF cycle and requires freezing the embryos until the test results come back.
Manual embryo grading may be a crude tool, but its noninvasive and easy for most fertility clinics to carry out.
Now, scientists say, an algorithm has learned to do all that time-intensive embryo ogling even better than a human.
In new research published today in NPJ Digital Medicine, scientists at Cornell University trained an off-the-shelf Google deep learning algorithm to identify IVF embryos as either good, fair, or poor, based on the likelihood each would successfully implant.
This type of AIthe same neural network that identifies faces, animals, and objects in pictures uploaded to Googles online serviceshas proven adept in medical settings.
It has learned to diagnose diabetic blindness and identify the genetic mutations fueling cancerous tumor growth.
IVF clinics could be where its headed next.
LEARN MORE The WIRED Guide to Artificial Intelligence All evaluation of the embryo as its done today is subjective, says Nikica Zaninovic, director of the embryology lab at Weill Cornell Medicine, where the research was conducted.
In 2011, the lab installed a time-lapse imaging system inside its incubators, so its technicians could watch (and record) the embryos developing in real time.
This gave them something many fertility clinics in the US do not havevideos of more than 10,000 fully anonymized embryos that could each be freeze-framed and fed into a neural network.
About two years ago, Zaninovic began Googling to find an AI expert to collaborate with.
He found one just across campus in Olivier Elemento, director of Weill Cornells Englander Institute for Precision Medicine.
For years, Elemento had been collecting all kinds of medical imaging dataMRIs, mammograms, stained slides of tumor tissuefrom any colleague who would give it to him, to develop automated systems to help radiologists and pathologists do their jobs better.
Hed never thought to try it with IVF but could immediately see the potential.
Theres a lot going on in an embryo thats invisible to the human eye but might not be to a computer.
It was an opportunity to automate a process that is time-consuming and prone to errors, he says.
Which is something thats not really been done before with human embryos.
To judge how their neural net, nicknamed STORK, stacked up against its human counterparts, they recruited five embryologists from clinics on three continents to grade 394 embryos based on images taken from different labs.
The five embryologists reached the same conclusion on only 89 embryos, less than a quarter of the total.
So the researchers instituted a majority voting procedurethree out of five embryologists needed to agree to classify an embryo as good, fair, or poor.
When STORK looked at the same images, it predicted the embryologist majority voting decision with 95.7 percent accuracy.
The most consistent volunteer matched results only 70 percent of the time; the least, 25 percent.
For now, STORK is just a tool embryologists can upload images to and play around with on a secure website hosted by Weill Cornell.
It wont be ready for the clinic until it can pass rigorous testing that follows implanted embryos over time, to see how well the algorithm fares in real life.
Elemento says the group is still finalizing the design for a trial that would do that by pitting embryologists against the AI in a small, randomized cohort.
Most important is understanding if STORK actually improves outcomesnot just implantation rates but successful, full-term pregnancies.
On that score, at least some embryologists are skeptical.
All this algorithm can do is change the order of which embryos we transfer, says Eric Forman, medical and lab director at Columbia University Fertility Center.
It needs more evidence to say it helps women get pregnant quicker and safer.
On its own, he worries that STORK might make only a small contribution to improving IVFs success rate, while possibly inserting its own biases.
Megan Molteni covers biotechnology, medicine, and genetic privacy for WIRED.
In addition to embryo grading, the Columbia clinic uses pre-implantation genetic screening to improve patients odds of pregnancy.
While not routine, it is offered to everyone.
Forman says about 70 percent of the clinics IVF cycles include the blastocyst biopsy procedure, which can add a few thousand dollars to a patients tab.
Thats why hes most intrigued about what Elementos team is cooking up next.
Theyre training a new set of neural networks to see if they can detect chromosomal abnormalities, like the one that causes Down Syndrome.
With an embryo developing under a cameras watchful gaze, Elementos algorithm would monitor the feed for telltale signs of trouble.
We think the patterns of cell division we can capture with these movies could potentially carry information about these defects, which are hidden in just the snapshots, says Elemento.
Theyre also looking into using the technique to predict miscarriages.
Theres plenty of room to improve the performance of IVF, and these algorithmic upgrades could make a dentin the right circumstances.
If it could provide accurate predictions in real time with minimal risk for harm and no additional cost, then I could see the potential to implement AI like this for embryo selection, says Forman.
But there would be barriers to its adoption.
Most IVF clinics in the US dont have one of these fancy time-lapse recording systems because theyre so expensive.
And there are a lot of other potential ways to improve embryo viability that could be more affordablelike tailoring hormone treatments and culturing techniques to the different kinds of infertility that women experience.
In the end, though, the number one problem IVF clinics contend with is that sometimes there just arent enough high-quality eggs, no matter how many cycles a patient goes through.
And no AI, no matter how smart, can do anything about that.
More Great WIRED Stories
A woman in the U.K. who had to be pulled from an amusement park ride after her legs were crushed under the weight of her family five years ago said she still suffers from PTSD, anxiety and depression since the accident, which resulted in lasting nerve damage, soft tissue damage and long-term hypersensitivity.
Leah Napolitano, now 19, received about $26,000 from Thorpe Park's insurance company for the accident, but said it ruined" her teenage years.
The pain is life changing, Napolitano, who endured years of physical therapy and missed school, told SWNS.
Its a stupid injury that has ruined my teenage years.
It has left me absolutely devastated and still affects my life now.
SWALLOWED TOYS, BATTERIES SPARK RISE IN TOT ER VISITS Napolitano said she was riding in the front of the now-shuttered log flume ride at the amusement park, but claims the ride operators overfilled the vessel and her legs were crushed under the weight of the other passengers.
My legs were completely trapped, she said.
I couldnt move them for the whole way round.
I got to the end and couldnt get out.
The boat was still moving and a staff member tried to yank me out I was completely trapped under the metal bar at the front.
OKLAHOMA DAD'S ACTIONS SAVE DAUGHTER'S LIFE AFTER 'SUDDEN DEATH' She said once she got out, she was in immediate pain and saw extreme swelling in her knee.
A few days later it got worse, so she visited the doctor who referred her to therapists, but physical therapy wasnt helping for the pain and she began missing classes.
She still goes for electric shock treatment every nine months in hopes of healing the nerve damage.
I havent reached my potential because of this, she told SWNS.
I would swap [the money] to get the last few years of my life back without a doubt.
It has left me devastated and still affects me now.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Napolitano said she is in therapy to help cope with her anxiety.
A spokesperson for the park told SWNS her claim was analyzed by the companys insurers, and after thorough consideration of the evidence submitted, an offer of compensation was made to Ms. Napolitano, which she accepted as full and final settlement.
The number of young kids who went to U.S. emergency rooms because they swallowed toys, coins, batteries and other objects has more than doubled, a new study says.
In 2015, there were nearly 43,000 such visits among kids under 6, compared with 22,000 in 1995, according to the study published Friday in the journal Pediatrics.
The rate jumped from almost 10 per 10,000 ER visits to 18 per 10,000.
HOSPITAL STAFF ERRORS WITH GOWNS AND GLOVES SPREAD ANTIBIOTIC-RESISTANT BACTERIA The increase "rang some alarms," said Dr. Danielle Orsagh-Yentis, the lead author and a gastrointestinal physician at Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus, Ohio.
Orsagh-Yentis noted that an increasing number of consumer products use potentially dangerous button-sized batteries, including TV remotes, digital thermometers and remote-controlled toys, which likely contributed to the increase.
She said her interest in studying the trend began during her training, "when we were all being called in in the middle of the night at odd hours to remove foreign bodies from either the esophagus or stomachs of children."
Her research team analyzed a nationwide database of non-fatal emergency room visits for children younger than age 6.
Almost 800,000 children were treated during the study years after swallowing foreign objects.
Coins, batteries and toys accounted for most of the visits.
COUPLE SHOCKED BY SURPRISE BABY AFTER GOING TO HOSPITAL FOR 'KIDNEY STONES' While 90% of treated children were sent home without hospitalization, severe internal injuries and deaths have been reported.
Batteries and small high-powered magnets often marketed as desk toys for adults are among the most dangerous objects.
When kids swallow more than one powerful magnet, the objects can attract each inside the intestines, boring holes into the abdomen that can lead to life-threatening blood poisoning.
In recent years, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission has issued safety warnings and orders to stop sales of some magnets, citing dozens of hospitalizations and at least one toddler death.
The agency also has warned about dangers from button-sized batteries, which when swallowed can trigger a chemical reaction that can burn holes through tissue inside the throat.
Children who swallow batteries or magnets may vomit or complain of abdominal pain.
They "should be brought to the emergency room as quickly as possible," Orsagh-Yentis said.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Morag Mackay of Safe Kids Worldwide, an injury prevention advocacy group, called for more research to understand why the incidents are on the rise.
She said parents and caregivers need to be vigilant.
"Try to see the world from a child's point of view by getting on the floor so that you are at your child's eye level.
Keep small objects such as coins, batteries, magnets, buttons or jewelry out of reach and sight," Mackay said.
An Oklahoma fathers quick thinking helped save his 6-year-old daughters life after the child suddenly collapsed when her heart stopped from a condition doctors call sudden death, a report said last week.
Peyton Woods was on vacation in Missouri with her family when she came down with what her parents believed was a typical respiratory issue," reported KFOR-TV of Oklahoma City.
ROLLING STONES' MICK JAGGER SAYS HE'S 'ON THE MEND' AFTER HEART SURGERY REPORTS The family saw an urgent care doctor and was picking up medicine at a Walmart when the 6-year-old fell to the floor.
Peytons father, Ricky, started chest compressions, even though he had never been trained, he told the station.
"I couldn't wait on anyone else to come," he said.
"I mean, two minutes later, I don't know if we'd be sitting here."
Doctors at The Children's Hospital at OU Medicine told the station that the child had a "sudden death" cardiac arrest.
Its a rare condition, with symptoms that are usually present after birth due to a slow or abnormal rhythm of the heart, called arrhythmia, the station reported.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP While Peyton was given a pacemaker and expected to lead a normal life, the incident inspired both her parents to get CPR training.
"I got lucky, but I would have liked to have been more prepared, I think," Ricky Woods told the station.
"But, we're thankful, and we're definitely humbled to be here right now."
Doctors in Papua New Guinea say a nationwide problem of botched penis enlargements is on the rise and drawing resources away from more pressing health issues.
Throughout the country, boys as young as 16 and men over 55 have reported penile disfigurement and dysfunction after injecting foreign substances into their penises, doctors say.
These foreign substances include baby oil, coconut oil, and silicone.
Akule Danlop, a surgeon at the Port Moresby General Hospital, said that over the past two years hes treated an average of five cases per week and those are just the ones who have come forward.
FATHER, SON CHARGED WITH SELLING INFECTED BODY PARTS ON BLACK MARKET Danlop said the effects are often irreversible and most men regret what they have done.
He told The Guardian hes seen abnormal, lumpy masses growing over the penis and sometimes involving the scrotum, while others have come in with ulcers that eventually burst open, making it difficult to urinate.
GET THE FOX NEWS APP The epidemic, Danlop said, has drawn away resources from patients who require serious treatment.
Theres cancer, there are other conditions ... Its a bit frustrating to see these cases when you have other people who deserve [help] and then these people are causing themselves harm, they do it to themselves, he said.
A father and son have been federally charged in Michigan for allegedly selling body parts infected with diseases on the black market.
Donald Greene Sr. and Donald Greene Jr. allegedly knew the body parts they sold from the now-closed Biological Resource Center of Illinois were infected with diseases including HIV, sepsis and hepatitis, according to CBS 2 Chicago.
The outlet reported that people donated the bodies of their loved ones to the Biological Resource Center of Illinois with the promise that they would be donated for medical research.
MAN HAD HUMAN BODY PARTS IN PAINT CANS, BEER COOLERS AND PLASTIC CONTAINERS: FBI AGENT Instead, the bodies were kept on ice and allegedly sold, some for up to $100,000, according to a search warrant.
Federal prosecutors said the people who bought the bodies reportedly did not know they had tested positive for infectious diseases.
According to CBS 2, the Greenes allegedly sold the diseased remains from 2008 to 2014.
The charges allege the Greenes sold at least one part to Detroit Medical Centers sports medicine department that had previously tested positive for hepatitis, allegedly concealed from the center by Greene Sr., according to the outlet.
MICHIGAN MAN JAILED FOR SELLING BODY PARTS INFECTED WITH HIV, HEPATITIS Greene Sr. has been charged with wire fraud while his son has been charged with intentionally concealing a crime.
The charges were filed last week as a criminal information, which means a guilty plea is expected.
The charges against the Greenes are related to an investigation that saw the arrest of a Detroit-area man who was sentenced last year to 9 years in prison.
Arthur Rathburn was convicted of fraud and shipping hazardous materials last May.
Investigators said he regularly provided body parts to medical associations for various seminars but didn't tell them that the parts came from people with infectious diseases.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Federal agencies behind efforts to address the nation's harrowing opioid epidemic took major steps this week to address a brewing public health crisis involving pain patients who have been wrongly cut off or abruptly tapered down from their prescription painkillers.
Both the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) warned doctors not to abruptly stop prescribing opioid painkillers to patients who are taking them for chronic debilitating pain, generally lasting more than three months.
The FDA issued an alert to doctors on the dangers of making abrupt changes in opioid treatment of chronic pain.
It's also amending labels on opioids that inform doctors how to taper them.
These include opioids such as OxyContin, Vicodin and dozens of generic pills.
The agency noted that chronic-pain patients who have responsibly taken opioids under medical supervision are wrongly being tapered down or abandoned by doctors who are afraid of being targeted by authorities in the current anti-opioid climate.
GUTFIELD ON THE UNINTENDED VICTIMS OF THE OPIOIDS CRACKDOWN On its website, the agency said: FDA has received reports of serious harm, including serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain and suicide, in patients who are physically dependent on opioid pain medicines when these medicines are suddenly discontinued or when the dose is reduced too quickly, often without adequate patient communication, follow-up or support.
In another significant move, the CDC has issued a clarification to its 2016 opioid prescribing guidelines, which in contrast to the agencys emphasis that they were not mandates have been used to enforce strict painkiller policies at the state and federal levels.
The clarification for which pain patient advocates and many medical groups have been pushing stresses that the guidelines are just suggestions that targeted primary care doctors who were prescribing opioids to first-time users.
Many of the leading critics of strict measures targeting legal opioids hailed the moves by the FDA and CDC.
Its a game-changer, said Michael Schatman, who directs research and network development at Boston Pain Care, which uses an array of programs including exercise, psychotherapy as well as prescription painkillersto treat pain.
Its going to result, hopefully, in the de-weaponization of the CDC guidelines, which had a chilling effect on the physicians who have been scared to prescribe opioids.
State medical boards, state attorneys general, insurance carriers, pharmacies, and the health care system have weaponized the guidelines, and doctors have told patients that they have to take them off opioids because its the law," said Schatman, who is a clinical psychologist.
"Theyre lying.
Last December, Fox News ran a three-part series about the unintended consequences of the anti-opioid crackdown.
The series reported that pain patients around the country who relied on opioids either entirely or as part of a larger treatment regimen for years in order to function suddenly were being put on ineffective low doses or dropped by their doctors altogether.
In many cases, the patients told Fox News that they had tried non-opioid treatments for their pain, but turned to opioids as a final resort after the other methods did not bring relief.
SINCE WHEN DOES THE GOVERNMENT WRITE PRESCRIPTIONS?
Many who had been tapered down or cut off confided that they had suicide plans or had thought of suicide, and doctors who have tapered patients or dropped them told Fox News that some of them had killed themselves after becoming completely debilitated.
Pain sufferers whose painkillers were tapered or stopped included cancer patients, a double amputee with multiple health problems, a woman with a rare disease that causes such intense spasms they bend her backward, and even a man with a terminal illness who was entering a hospice facility.
We all agree that there was overprescribing of opioids at one time, said Kate Nicholson, a former federal prosecutor who credits her opioid treatment with allowing her to function after years of being bedridden.
We have an opioid crisis, which is now dominated by [illicit] fentanyl and heroin.
We tried to change prescriber behavior, and a lot of the efforts were good and positive.
Prescribers are much more cautious when starting new patients on opioids, and that is a win.
But we have also ended up cutting off a lot of people who legitimately use their medication, said Nicholson, who served for 20 years in the Department of Justices civil rights division, where she drafted current regulations under the Americans With Disabilities Act.
Theres a population of people who have been on them for a long time, some for decades, and now theyre being denied their medication or forcibly tapered and these patients have been destabilized -- because the CDC and law enforcement agencies and pharmacies and others have been focused lowering opioid use.
Nicholson said the move by the CDC to sound an alarm to prescribers and regulators is significant because its their guidelines that have been used to apply these [misguided] policies.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Opioid medications can be addictive and dangerous even when used under doctors orders, though they are also an accepted tool to treat severe pain from serious injuries, surgery and cancer.
Prescriptions have fallen in the U.S. by nearly a quarter since peaking at more than 255 million prescriptions in 2012.
Driving the decline are new laws and prescribing limits from state and local governments, insurers and hospital systems.
Those limits restrict the number of pills, refills and who can prescribe opioids.
But health care experts and pain patients say that the limits are overzealous and treat all pain sufferers in a one-size-fits-all manner.
They argue that the opioid overdose epidemic is driven largely by illegal opioids such as fentanyl and heroin or prescription painkillers stolen from the patients who legitimately need them.
They say that legal opioids became an easy target in the fervor to respond to the overdose crisis, and that it has done nothing to solve the overdose fatality rate, which has continued to rise.
"The pendulum swung too far," said Schatman about the government's crackdown on prescription opioids.
"About 20 million people in the U.S. have chronic, high-impact pain and are disabled by it," Schatman said.
"A good proportion of them find that opioids make them more functional and allow them to enjoy a higher quality of life.
Government agencies have not been sympathetic to chronic pain patients."
In March, the CDC received a letter signed by more than 300 medical experts, including former drug czars from the Obama, Clinton and Nixon administrations, expressing concern that the 2016 guidelines had become a tool for insurers to deny opioid coverage and for doctors to undertreat or drop pain patients.
Many say they'll take a wait-and-see approach before proclaiming the moves by the FDA and CDC a victory for pain patients.
"It's a beginning, it is significant, but it is just the beginning," Nicholson said.
"Deconstructing what has happened [because of the overzealous crackdown on prescriptions] will be an onerous process."
The FDA's new label will warn doctors that rapidly discontinuing opioids in patients who are dependent on them can cause withdrawal symptoms including uncontrolled pain, nausea, chills and anxiety.
In the worst cases, the FDA noted, these problems have been tied to suicide.
The federal agency said doctors and patients should agree on a plan to gradually reduce their dosage, based on their treatment history, type of pain, psychological state and other factors.
The FDA stressed the importance of a customized plan, saying no standard method exists that is suitable for all patients.
The CDC said opioids should be reserved for the most severe forms of long-term pain.
That narrow use was long accepted.
But beginning in the 1990s some drugmakers, insurers and pain specialists called for wider use of the drugs for more common pain ailments like backaches and arthritis.
"My instinct is to acknowledge incremental progress, and then get busy forcing the immediate recall and repudiation of the entire [CDC] guidelines document and all state legislation or regulation that incorporates it," said Richard Lawhern, a pain patient advocate and health care writer.
"We likely won't be able to avoid a rewrite effort for 'some' kind of guideline, because doctors won't reenter pain management practice without a shield from sanctions," Lawhern said, adding that what is needed are "actionable recommendations to Congress that allow doctors to use their judgment, and give them meaningful education to develop that judgment."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
A man ended up in the hospital with a nasty infection that appeared to "eat away at his arm".
The bug had been slowly devouring his arm for five months before he sought medical help.
The unnamed 65-year-old told doctors at the Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital in Guangzhou, China, that he had suffered a trauma to his arm months earlier.
Afterward, he began to notice a circular rash appeared on his right hand and forearm.
WOMAN CLAIMS IMPLANT SCAR SMELLED 'LIKE ROTTEN MEAT' AFTER BOTCHED PROCEDURE ABROAD He tried to treat the rash with a mixture of "juices and fragments from herbs," D.r Jinglin Qin said in a case report published in the New England Journal of Medicine.
"But there was no improvement to his condition," Dr Jinglin said.
Blisters that wouldn't heal When he arrived at the hospital, medics assessed him.
They noted a large, red rash that had started to blister and ulcer, with patches of "crusting" skin.
They took a biopsy, to try and establish what was causing the rash.
In the lab, the sample of skin taken from the patient, began to grow a fungus called Sporotrix schenckii.
Jinglin said they diagnosed the man with a case of sporotrichosis, dubbed "gardener's disease".
"The infection usually involves the skin and subcutaneous tissue and occurs from inoculation of the fungus from plants and soil through the skin," he said.
And he warned people with compromised or weaker immune systems were more likely to catch the bug.
HERBAL SUPPLEMENT KRATOM IS TIED TO MORE US DEATHS Rare but nasty infection Sporotrichosis is rare, but can prove nasty.
The fungus lives throughout the world in soil and on plant matter like moss, rose bushes and hay.
A person becomes infected when they come into contact with fungal spores.
It typically affects the skin, when the fungus gets into the body via a cut or scrape.
Symptoms include: -small, painless bumps that develop one to 12 weeks after coming into contact with the fungus -bump can be pink, red, purple and usually appears on the finger, hand or arm -bump eventually grows larger and can look like an open sore or ulcer that's really slow to heal -if the infection affects a person's lungs it can cause a nasty cough, shortness of breath or fever CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP -condition can cause infection of joints, confused with rheumatoid arthritis -infections of the central nervous system can cause headaches, problems thinking and seizures Jinglin's team treated the patient with anti-fungal drugs and four months later the rash and crusty sores had healed.
Click here for more from The Sun.
U.S. health officials say overdose deaths involving the herbal supplement kratom are more common than previously reported.
A government report released Thursday said kratom was a cause in 91 overdose deaths in 27 states.
Officials previously said they knew of 44 nationally.
WOMAN CLAIMS PLANT SCAR SMELLED 'LIKE ROTTEN MEAT' AFTER BOTCHED PROCEDURE ABROAD Most who died had also taken heroin, fentanyl or other drugs.
But kratom was the only substance detected in seven of the deaths.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported the numbers after combing through death certificates and toxicology reports from an 18-month period.
Kratom comes from a plant native to Southeast Asia.
It is sold in capsules and powders with claims that it helps ease pain, anxiety and drug dependence.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Officials say it causes euphoric effects like the opioid drugs behind the current nationwide overdose epidemic.
Doctors claim they have made medical history after a healthy baby boy was born via a controversial IVF technique that uses the genetic information of three parents.
Both the baby, who was born on Tuesday, and his unnamed 32-year-old mother, are reported to be in good health, according to the Spanish and Greek doctors who oversaw their care.
The boy was conceived using a procedure known as Maternal Spindle Transfer (MST).
MST is a type of in vitro fertilization in which harmful mitochondria found in the mothers egg is removed and replaced by the female donors.
The procedure still allows the preservation of genetic material from the woman with the desire to reproduce, ultimately allowing 99 percent of the DNA to be from the parents raising the child.
'I STARTED SCREAMING': EX-PATIENT CLAIMS DENTIST WHO HAD LICENSE REVOKED LEFT HER WITH BROKEN JAW The donor will only provide mitochondrial DNA, which only codes 37 genes and represents less than 1 percent of human DNA, Dr. Nuno Costa-Bo rges said in an earlier statement.
The birth, carried out by the Institute of Life in Greece, marks the first time in the world the procedure ended successfully.
The completely successful and safe implementation of the Maternal Spindle Transfer method for the first time in medical history is a revolution in assisted reproduction, Costa-Borges said in a statement.
WOMAN CLAIMS IMPLANT SCAR SMELLED 'LIKE ROTTEN MEAT' AFTER BOTCHED PROCEDURE ABROAD The mother resorted to the new method after failing to complete four cycles of IVF and an additional two other procedures.
She is one of 25 women enrolled in the Institutes MST trial.
Although successful and legally approved in the U.K. and Greece, the procedure raises ethical concerns among some medical professionals.
Im concerned that theres no proven need for the patient to have her genetic material removed, Tim Child, a professor at Oxford and medical director at the Fertility Partnership, told the BBC, adding the patient may have conceived even if a further standard IVF cycle has been used.
Others stress the technique should only be used on a case-by-case basis.
There is limited evidence on risks and success rates, and it should only be used cautiously in cases where alternative treatments would be of little or no benefit, a spokesperson for the Human Fertilization and Embryology Authority said in a statement about the birth.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The MST treatment remains banned in the U.S., where approximately one-third of adults have or know someone who has engaged in IVF procedures.
A North Carolina dentist who had her license revoked after two patients died following procedures at her office allegedly once extracted a patients wisdom teeth while the victim was still awake, and left her with a fractured jaw.
We went back there and she put the mask on me and told me that Id start to feel a little tingly, Kennadi Nester, a former patient of Dr. Shawana Patterson, told MyFox8.com.
But I didnt.
I was laying there and then she started to cut open my teeth and started to drill them and break them to pull it out.
I started screaming and I was crying.
I was hyperventilating.
WOMAN CLAIMS IMPLANT SCAR SMELLED 'LIKE ROTTEN MEAT' AFTER BOTCHED PROCEDURE ABROAD Nester also charges that she was only supposed to have two teeth extracted, but Patterson, who was under investigation at the time, took out four, and later when she landed in the emergency room a CT scan revealed that the procedure had also resulted in a fractured jaw.
A mandibular fracture from here to here, where she was hitting it and putting her weight into it, Nester told MyFox8.com of her injuries.
WOMAN DIES FROM BLOOD CLOT 17 DAYS AFTER GETTING BREST IMPLANTS, TUMMY TUCK The North Carolina State Board of Dental Examiners issued an emergency suspension of Patterson general anesthesia permit earlier this month following the death of a second patient.
Her license and general anesthesia permit had been revoked by the same board on Jan. 11.
Patterson is accused of failing to check patients medical histories and ordering staff to alter medical records to conceal violations, according to the News & Record.
According to the boards investigation, Patterson had used excessive levels of sedatives in the cases that resulted in fatalities.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Im actually thankful that she didnt put me to sleep because that could have happened to me if I was put to sleep, Nester told MyFox8.com.
A 28-year-old woman who claims she forked over $3,500 for a breast implant procedure and all-inclusive stay abroad said she has been left with a lopsided chest and feels like a total freak after her care was allegedly mismanaged.
Holly McCulloch claims that at one point, a 7-centimeter hole along her surgical wound started smelling like rotten meat, and then she noticed her implant had started poking through the skin.
Had a doctor told me that what I wanted was crazy, Id have been fine and just gone for the largest possible for my body, Holly McCulloch, of Manchester, told SWNS of her initial implant size.
It was the doctors and nurses jobs to make sure I was fit and well after the second surgery, and they should have never let me go home in such a state.
WOMAN DIES FROM BLOOD CLOT 17 DAYS AFTER GETTING BREAST IMPLANTS, TUMMY TUCK McCulloch, who traveled from her home to Turkey in August 2018 for the first surgery, told SWNS that she booked her trip after seeing an ad on Instagram.
She said the ad featured celebrities and high-profile clients which boosted her confidence in booking.
When she arrived, she told the news outlet that she began getting suspicious about the clinics practices, but that her nerves prevented her from questioning anything.
She claims she was sedated in an elevator, and that she communicated with a number of nurses through a translation app.
McCulloch told SWNS that when she woke up from the first procedure covered in her own vomit, she was allegedly in so much pain due to the size of her implants that she was taken back in to have them removed.
McCulloch said when she woke up a second time, her implants were gone and she was left with loose, saggy skin, all stretched out from the huge implants.
She claims she went home several days later on the promise of free implants when she returned to the clinic.
In January 2019, she returned to the villa and chose smaller implants, but days later she felt like she was dying.
'DR.
PIMPLE POPPER' REMOVES PATIENT'S MASSIVE GROWTH THAT SMELLED 'LIKE 10 DEAD RATS' She said she was allowed to fly home and was taken to Wythenshawe Hospital directly from the Manchester airport, where doctors discovered a large blister along one of her incisions.
She claims she was given antibiotics for an infection and sent home, but that her surgical wounds began leaking green and yellow pus, and her skin was turning black.
She said she spent several days in a local hospital being treated for an infection, but the black hole kept getting larger despite doctors assurances that her skin would heal.
She said by mid-February it had started smelling like rotten meat, and then she heard a ripping sound and saw her implant poking out.
She returned to the same local hospital, where she learned the implant would need to be removed.
I asked what the alternative was and he told me if it wasnt removed the infection would end up killing me, McCulloch told the news outlet.
She is now scheduled to have implant surgery in three months.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The NHS advises against booking procedures advertised as a treatment plus a holiday.
And to avoid meet-and-greet evenings with salespeople rather than the surgeon who will operate on you.
It also cautions against going to an unknown hospital for a procedure with a surgeon youve never met.
Selling cosmetic surgery as part of a holiday package is misleading, the NHS said on its website.
Cosmetic surgery is a major undertaking.
While it is possible to have holiday before surgery, it is unrealistic to have one immediately after.
It is not advisable to drink, lie in the sun or do anything energetic if youre recovering from surgery.
Thousands of women across the country who believe their breast implants are making them sick are calling on the Food and Drug Administration to take action.
The women blame their implants for a number of auto immune illnesses, and a variety of symptoms such as joint and muscle pain, chronic fatigue and migraines.
Theyre demanding new warnings and restrictions on the devices.
The FDA maintains there is not enough evidence to link breast implants and connective tissue diseases like lupus and rheumatoid arthritis.
However, it has acknowledged that women with breast implants may have an increased risk of developing a rare cancer called anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL).
Nearly 700 cases have been reported worldwide, and most involved textured implants.
Canada and the Netherlands are suspending sales of textured implants, and France has banned them.
An FDA advisory committee held hearings on breast implant safety on March 25 and 26 in Silver Spring, Maryland.
After the two-day hearing, the panel didnt recommend any immediate restrictions on the implants.
The FDA says it will reveal what actions it will take in the coming weeks.
Dr. Diana Zuckerman, president of a Washington DC-based non-profit called the National Center for Health Research, testified at the March 25th FDA hearing.
She tells Fox News, We dont know how many women get sick from breast implants but we do know that some women are getting very sick.
And the evidence is when the implants are removed, they can have almost miraculous recoveries.
And so its time for the FDA to acknowledge that breast implants can make women sick with these autoimmune types of symptoms.
And to warn them about it before they get breast implants, but also to warn them about it when they start to get sick.
At the FDA hearing, researchers said its possible that silicone that leaks from implants can trigger or worsen immune system disorders in some patients.
"One of the things that's possible is that some women have a genetic predisposition to have a problem with breast implants, Zuckerman says.
Maybe they have a family member with auto immune disease or maybe they themselves have had some auto immune symptoms.
That's what we found in our study, so we think that probably some women are more likely to get sick than others.
Breast implant makers and the American Society of Plastic Surgeons say the implants are safe.
But dozens of women who attended the FDA hearing, including Andrea Ottaiano of Morristown, New Jersey, are calling for a black box warning on the devices and a ban on textured implants.
They also want a better patient consent process so women can be informed of the risks before getting breast implants.
There's not a lot of full disclosure that goes along with these devices and a lot of women that were getting them whether it was for augmentation or it's a breast cancer reconstruction aren't fully presented with the risk-benefit ratio, Ottaiano says.
And that was just quite shocking to me, because in the field that I worked in for years, it was always so important to have transparency, and present if there were safety issues or risks.
Ottaiano, a three-time cancer survivor, is getting her implants removed this spring.
She says in the last several years, she has suffered from a painful complication called capsular contracture, along with joint pain, fatigue and other symptoms she believes are being caused by her breast implants.
My concern for my own health is I've had implants in for 11 years post a breast cancer bilateral mastectomy, and I've done the research and done the math that they are not lifelong devices.
They do have a life expectancy and sometimes they need to come out.
So I was lucky enough to find a doctor last year that actually listened and agreed to a course of action.
In the United States, about 400,000 women get breast implants each year.
Some 100,000 get them after cancer surgery.
New York City plastic surgeon Dr. Constance Chen says she tries to educate her patients about the pros and cons of breast implants, and tell them about alternatives, such as breast reconstruction using natural tissue.
Dr. Chen thinks more research needs to be done into breast implant related illnesses.
It's very difficult to prove causality when it comes to auto immune illnesses and implants, Chen says.
So the evidence is sometimes hard to get which I think is part of the problem.
She adds, There are a lot of people who find implants just don't agree with them, whether it's they develop these auto immune symptoms, or it's a foreign body that their body just doesn't want inside of them.
I've seen too many people who have developed these non-specific symptoms -- like brain fog, fatigue, joint pains, food allergies, drug allergies, etcetera -- to write them off.
Dogs can smell lung cancer with 97 percent accuracy, according to new research.
The study, presented Monday at the annual meeting of the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology in Orlando, looked at how four beagles, all two years old, identified human blood samples -- either with lung cancer or without.
FORMER OLYMPIC HOCKEY PLAYER SAYS RADON CAUSED STAGE 4 LUNG CANCER Though one of the dogs, named Snuggles, was unmotivated to perform, according to a statement, the other three were able to correctly identify blood samples with lung cancer 96.7 percent of the time as well as normal blood samples 97.5 percent of the time.
The experiment, conducted by researchers at the Florida pharmaceutical lab BioScentDx, trained the beagles to differentiate between blood samples from lung cancer patients and normal blood samples.
The beagles were able to detect the differences because dogs have smell receptors that are 10,000 times more accurate than humans, according to the statement.
IMMUNE THERAPY SCORES BIG WIN AGAINST LUNG CANCER IN STUDY Heather Junqueira, who led the study, said her findings could lead to other cancer-screening tools, which are important because early cancer detection often means higher chances of survival.
This work is very exciting because it paves the way for further research along two paths, both of which could lead to new cancer-detection tools, Junqueira said.
One is using canine scent detection as a screening method for cancers, and the other would be to determine the biologic compounds the dogs detect and then design cancer-screening tests based on those compounds, she added.
Getting nutrients from foods not supplements may be the key to a longer and healthier life, a new study published this week suggests.
In fact, when it comes to taking supplements in general, researchers from Tufts University claim to have found no association between dietary supplement use and a lower risk of [early] death.
E. COLI OUTBREAK IN KENTUCKY, OHIO, OTHER STATES SICKENS NEARLY 100, CDC SAYS Our results support the idea that, while supplement use contributes to an increased level of total nutrient intake, there are beneficial associations with nutrients from foods that arent seen with supplements, Fang Fang Zhang, a study senior author and associate professor at the Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts University, said in a news statement.
This study also confirms the importance of identifying the nutrient source when evaluating mortality outcomes, added Zhang.
The researchers also said excess intake of certain supplements namely calcium can have harmful effects, increasing a persons risk of a cancer-associated death, according to the study, which was published Tuesday in the medical journal Annals of Internal Medicine.
Specifically, the risk of cancer death increased with supplemental doses of calcium exceeding 1,000 mg/day, according to the universitys news release regarding the findings.
The same was not true for calcium intake from foods.
As for those with low nutrient intake, researchers also concluded dietary supplements had no effect on the risk of death for those individuals.
Rather, the team found indications that use of vitamin D supplements by individuals with no sign of vitamin D deficiency may be associated with an increased risk of death from all causes including cancer, the news release states, noting more research on this particular topic is needed.
To obtain the results, the researchers looked a data of nearly 30,000 adults in the U.S. with a minimum age of 20 years.
The data was taken from a national health survey from 1999 to 2010.
For the survey, participants were asked what foods they ate over the last 24 hours and what, if any, supplements they had consumed in the past 30 days, per Live Science.
From there, participants were tracked for roughly six years.
By the end, 945 of those who took part in the survey died of heart disease, while 805 died from cancer, according to Live Science.
When it came to supplements vs. food, Tufts researchers found those who received an adequate amounts of vitamin K or magnesium over the course of the study had a lower risk of early death, while they also determined those who had adequate intakes of vitamin A, vitamin K, zinc or copper through food had a lower risk of early death from cardiovascular disease.
DEADLY FUNGAL 'SUPERBUG' SPREADS WORLDWIDE, ALARMING SCIENTISTS As potential benefits and harms of supplement use continue to be studied, some studies have found associations between excess nutrient intake and adverse outcomes, including increased risk of certain cancers, Zhang said.
It is important to understand the role that the nutrient and its source might play in health outcomes, particularly if the effect might not be beneficial.
The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics similarly warns excess amounts of some vitamins and minerals can lead to health issues, recommending people instead get their nutrients from healthy foods.
That said, the academy noted some individuals such as older adults and pregnant women may require supplements if they are at an "increased risk of nutrient deficiencies."
Nearly 100 people across five states have been sickened by an E.coli outbreak, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said Tuesday.
The outbreak has affected residents in Georgia, Kentucky, Ohio, Tennessee and Virginia with the highest number of cases (46) reported in Kentucky.
While no deaths have been reported, at least 11 people have been hospitalized due to the outbreak, according to the federal health agency.
E. COLI OUTBREAK IN KENTUCKY SICKENS NEARLY 50 PEOPLE, HEALTH OFFICIALS SAY This investigation is still ongoing and a specific food item, grocery store, or restaurant chain has not been identified as the source of infections, the CDC said.
The agency's statement echoed that of Barbara Fox, a spokesperson for the Kentucky Cabinet for Health and Family Services, who told Fox News late last week a "possible food contamination source" may be the culprit.
That said, she noted officials "can't fully confirm that at this time" as "interviews are ongoing with those affected."
E. coli are bacteria found in both human and animal intestines.
While most strains are harmless, some are pathogenic and can cause illness, which typically includes stomach cramps and diarrhea, according to the CDC.
The bacteria can be transmitted through contaminated water or food and sometimes through contact with other people and animals.
USDA WILL NO LONGER USE KITTENS, CATS AS SUBJECTS IN CONTROVERSIAL FOOD-SAFETY TESTING While most people recover after several days, some E. coli infection cases can be life-threatening.
This is especially true for pregnant women, newborns, older or elderly adults and those with weakened immune systems.
The CDC recommends thorough handwashing, washing fruits and vegetables, cooking meat thoroughly and avoiding cross-contamination in food preparation areas as ways to prevent E. coli illness.
The marijuana legalization industry appears to be fueling public confusion about CBD to advance its agenda, former New York Times investigative reporter Alex Berenson told Fox & Friends Wednesday.
Berenson, the author of a new book, Tell Your Children: The Truth About Marijuana, Mental Illness, and Violence, said that CBD, which stands for cannabidiol and is the non-psychotropic substance in cannabis, is largely unregulated and serves mainly as a placebo for many people seeking relief from various medical conditions.
Its heavily promoted as being the next big thing for everything from gout to your dogs arthritis, Berenson told host Steve Doocy, adding that even people in the marketing industry will acknowledge that the marketing claims way outrun the science.
CBD OIL IS THE NEW RAGE AMONG MILLENNIALS.
BUT, AS A DOCTOR, HERE'S WHAT I WORRY ABOUT Its not clear how well purified these products are, and a lot of them are not tested that rigorously, he said.
While it may not be the silver bullet that many of its users hope or believe it is, Berenson said, it also appears to be harmless.
JELLY BELLY CREATOR INTRODUCES CBD-INFUSED JELLY BEANS What worries Berenson is that many people make the leap from seeing CBD as harmless because it is available in a variety of products, including coffee, snacks and lotions, and assumed that THC-laced marijuana, which does produce a high, is fundamentally the same and equally benign.
In his book, Berenson says that studies show that people who consume large amounts of marijuana have psychosis and schizophrenia and that states that have legalized it are seeing a rise in violence.
From my point of view whats really dangerous about CBDis that it confuses people about what cannabis is, the author said.
What you or I or Grandma might use to treat her arthritis has nothing to do with what her grandson is smoking upstairs and getting high on.
The legalization industry, and it is an industry, has capitalized on this to confuse people, Berenson added, and rally support for recreational pot to become legal.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Its a Trojan horse, it confuses people and it gets the industry to be able to say Hey, this drug does wonderful things.
A leading group of pediatricians is demanding a recall of Fisher-Prices popular Rock N Play Sleeper following a report that links the product to 32 infant deaths.
The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) statement comes days after the company issued its own warning about the product, which said children older than three months who have learned how to roll over should not use the product.
But the AAP said the warning, which also said 10 babies have died while using the product since 2015, is not enough and cited Consumer Reports analysis that recorded 32 infant deaths involving the product between 2011 and 2018.
The AAP said Consumer Reports recorded deaths involving infants younger than three months, which is alarming.
FISHER-PRICE ISSUES WARNING ABOUT 'ROCK 'N PLAY SLEEPER' AFTER 10 INFANT DEATHS AAP urges parents to stop using the product immediately, the group said in a statement posted to its website on Tuesday.
Stores should remove the Rock N Play Sleeper from their shelves.
A warning issued by the CPSC and Fisher-Price on April 5 did not go far enough to ensure safety and protect infants.
The groups president called the product deadly.
When parents purchase a product for their baby or child, many assume that if its being sold in a store, it must be safe to use, Kyle Yasuda, MD, FAAP, and AAP president, said in a statement.
Tragically, that is not the case.
There is convincing evidence that the Rock N Play inclined sleeper puts infants lives at risk, and CPSC must step up and take immediate action to remove it from stores and prevent further tragedies.
COUPLE SHOCKED BY SURPRISE BABY AFTER GOING TO HOSPITAL FOR 'KIDNEY STONES' The AAP does not recommend any sleeping products for infants or any products that require restraining a baby.
It also advises against using car seats, strollers or other devices for sleeping due to risk of roll over leading to possible suffocation or strangulation.
In Fisher-Prices warning last week, the company noted that the 10 deaths they cited in their statement involved children older than 3 months who were unrestrained in the product, and had managed to roll on their stomach or sides.
The product is advertised as a place for infants to nap or sleep, and includes a vibration setting for comfort.
In its initial statement, Fisher-Price said the product meets all applicable safety standards, including those of the international standards organization, known as ASTM International, and is certified by the Juvenile Products Manufacturing Association (JPMA).
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP But AAPs chair of the Task Force on SIDS said the product fails to meet the groups recommendations for a safe sleep environment.
Infants should always sleep on their back, on a separate, flat and firm sleep surface without any bumpers or bedding, Rachel Moon, MD, FAAP, and chair of the AAP Task Force on SIDS, said in a statement.
Fox News' Anna Hopkins contributed to this report.
A Louisiana couple who said they had no idea they were expecting a baby quickly made the transition to parenthood two weeks ago after Grace Mawns suspected kidney stone pain turned out to be active labor.
I knew when I felt something down there, I knew it wasnt a kidney stone, Mawn, whose husband Bryson took her to the emergency room after they left dinner with friends on March 25, told KSLA.
MOM CLAIMS SPIDER BITE LEFT SON WITH GAPING HOLE IN LEG Mawn said she was on birth control and that she hadnt missed any periods or experienced any typical pregnancy symptoms in the months prior to arriving at the hospital.
But on March 26, at 3:03 a.m., she gave birth to Micaela Grace.
I never felt her move during the pregnancy, she told KSLA.
I never had cravings, I never had morning sickness.
Looking back now I did put on a little bit of weight, but it wasnt noticeable weight, so I didnt ever think about it.
I had my normal cycle some months were a little lighter, but I thought it was the pill that I was on so I never thought anything about it.
Bryson Mawn, who is in the Air Force and is stationed at Barksdale Air Force Base, said when he heard his daughter's first cry, he was in shock.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP They said Its a girl, and she starts crying and the moment I heard that cry I was like How is she alive?
What is going on?
he told the news outlet.
So many questions, so many scenarios going through my head of whats going to happen.
Bryson Mawn said he set up a GoFundMe page to help cover their unexpected addition as the couple only had a few hundred dollars in their savings prior to their daughters birth.
Micaela is currently in the Ochsner LSU Health Shreveport NICU where she continues to make progress, according to reports.
WARNING: GRAPHIC IMAGE BELOW A 9-year-old boy has been left with a gruesome hole in his leg after a suspected poisonous spider bite allegedly ate away at the flesh on his limb, leaving him susceptible to serious infection.
Bobby Clearys mother told SWNS that her son first complained of itchy swelling on April 1, but they initially didnt suspect anything serious.
I put some Savlon on it and didnt think much more of it, Emma Barnett, of Essex, told the news outlet.
But when the boy was at school several days later, his teachers called to tell her he was limping, and that the wound had started oozing.
NYC HEALTH OFFICIALS WARN AGAINST 'MEASLES PARTIES' AMID BIGGEST OUTBREAK IN DECADES She claims her doctor gave the boy antihistamine and a pain reliever before bandaging his leg and telling them not to worry.
But the following day, Bobbys grandmother called Barnett to tell her that the dressing had filled with fluid and they rushed the boy to the emergency room.
They dressed it again and gave him antibiotics so I felt better about it and that that would be that, she told the news outlet.
Thank goodness they knew what they were doing.
But over the weekend Bobbys wound worsened, and when they removed the dressing found a gaping hole.
4 BEES FOUND FEEDING ON WOMAN'S TEARS INSIDE EYELID I panicked, I never seen anything like it, Barnett told SWNS.
At this point, she threw out the theory that the bite was from a harmless gnat, and started suspecting a poisonous spider.
Barnett took her son back to the hospital where he was placed on an IV drip to flush out the poison.
Barnett said that as an infant, her son contracted an infection that now makes him more susceptible to developing sepsis, a potentially life-threatening condition caused by the bodys reaction to an infection.
As a result, she told SWNS that she will have to monitor her son for the next few months to ensure the wound doesnt become infected.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Spider bites are typically harmless, with black widow spider and the brown recluse spider usually named as prime suspects in bites that result in complications.
Barnett reportedly suspects a black widow spider bit her son, but brown recluse spider bites can cause a sting or sharp pain, and cause surrounding skin to die within a few hours, according to the Mayo Clinic.
It may also be difficult to tell spider bites apart from other insect bites initially due to similar appearance.
A 29-year-old Taiwanese woman discovered four bees had been feeding off her tears after she went to the hospital with a sharp stinging pain in her eye, according to reports.
The doctor was able to extract the sweat bees alive from inside the womans tear duct, The Guardian reported.
The small bees are the size of a sesame seed.
TEEN SUFFERING FROM SEIZURES DIES AFTER DOCTORS DISCOVER PARASITIC TAPEWORM EGGS IN HIS BRAIN I saw something that looked like insect legs, so I pulled them out under a microscope slowly, and one at a time without damaging their bodies, Dr. Hung Chi-ting, the head of ophthalmology at Fooyin University Hospital said at a news conference.
The woman had been at a family members grave when the sweat bees likely entered her eye.
She said she felt something enter her eye, but assumed it w as dirt, CTS News in Taiwan reported.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Her eyesight was saved, according to The Guardian, because she hadnt rubbed her eyes.
With more than 13 million cars sold in China last year, motor vehicles and their emissions have emerged as the chief culprit for the air pollution and as a cause for childhood asthma.
File photo by Stephen Shaver/UPI | License Photo April 12 (UPI) -- Between 2010 and 2015, roughly 4 million children globally developed asthma annually from inhaling nitrogen dioxide produced largely by motor vehicle exhaust, a new study says.
Within the United States, the cities with the highest rate of childhood asthma are Los Angeles, New York, Chicago, Las Vegas and Milwaukee, according to research published in April in The Lancet Planetary Health.
"Our findings suggest that millions of new cases of pediatric asthma could be prevented in cities around the world by reducing air pollution," said Susan Aneberg, a researcher at George Washington University and study author, in a news release.
The study listed estimates of new pediatric asthma incidences in 194 countries and 125 cities throughout the world.
Overall, 13 percent of those cases were associated with nitrogen dioxide pollution.
The researchers said this is the first study to count the global cases of pediatric asthma connected to nitrogen dioxide.
In the 125 cities, the rates of children who developed asthma from nitrogen dioxide intake range from 6 percent in Orlu, Nigeria, to 48 percent in Shanghai, China.
Eight of the top 10 cities where nitrogen dioxide was attributable to childhood asthma are in China, ranging from 37 percent to 48 percent.
Moscow and Seoul both had 40 percent.
More than 6 million children in the United States have asthma, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
"Improving access to cleaner forms of transportation, like electrified public transport and active commuting by cycling and walking, would not only bring down nitrogen dioxide levels but would also reduce asthma, enhance physical fitness and cut greenhouse gas emissions," Aneberg said.
The researchers said that cities with high levels of nitrogen dioxide levels also had high greenhouse emissions.
Following through with existing plans to clean up the environment, they said, could help curb new cases of asthma and other health problems related to air pollution.
"That finding suggests that the World Health Organization guideline for nitrogen oxide might need to be re-evaluated to make sure it is sufficiently protective of children's health," said Pattanun Achakulwisut, a researcher at George Washington University and study lead author, in news release.
The average rate of autism is 1 in 59 for children in Arizona, Colorado, Missouri, New Jersey, North Carolina, Utah and Wisconsin.
File Photo by Dubova/Shutterstock April 11 (UPI) -- Autism rates have surged at an alarming rate in several states around the country since 2010, a new study says.
The average rate of autism is 1 in 59 for children in Arizona, Colorado, Missouri, New Jersey, North Carolina, Utah and Wisconsin, according to findings published Wednesday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
"It's very likely that the next time we survey autism among children, the rate will be even higher," Walter Zahorodny, an associate professor of pediatrics at Rutgers New Jersey Medical School and study author, said in a news release.
The researchers studied health records for 4-year-olds between 2010 and 2014 and 8-year-olds within the same time frame.
They found that children with other intellectual disabilities and conditions were likely to be diagnosed with autism before age four.
Between 2010 and 2014, New Jersey saw a 43 percent spike in autism cases, the largest of any state measured in the study.
In all, about 1 in 35 children in the state has autism compared to a low of 8 per 1,000 children in Missouri.
"These are true influences exerting an effect, but they are not enough to explain the high rate of autism prevalence," Zahorodny said.
"There are still undefined environmental risks that contribute to this significant increase, factors that could affect a child in its development in utero or related to birth complications or to the newborn period.
We need more research into non-genetic triggers for autism."
The researchers don't know why autism rates have gone up throughout the country.
However, factors such as parents over age 30 having children, genetic mutations, birth prior to 37 weeks of pregnancy and more than one birth might explain the uptick.
On average, the researchers say children are diagnosed with autism in 53 months, a number that hasn't changed in over a decade.
They want detection "Children who are evaluated for autism early -- around their second birthday -- often respond better to treatment than those who are diagnosed later," Zahorodny said.
"However, it appears that only the most seriously affected children are being evaluated at the crucial time, which can delay access to treatment and special services."
Men taking 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors had the risk of developing type 2 diabetes increased by a third, according to a new study.
Photo by linerpics/Shutterstock April 11 (UPI) -- A common prostate cancer drug has been linked to type 2 diabetes, a new study says.
Men taking 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors had the risk of developing type 2 diabetes increase by a third, according to research published Wednesday in the British Medical Journal.
"We found that commonly prescribed medications for prostate disease can increase risk of type 2 diabetes," Ruth Andrew, a researcher at the University of Edinburgh and study senior author, said in a news release.
"These findings will be particularly important for health screening in older men who are already typically at a higher risk of type 2 diabetes.
We will now continue our studies to better understand the long-term outcomes so we can better identify patients at greater risk."
The researchers found that men in Taiwan and the U.K. who used dutasteride or finasteride to treat benign prostatic hyplasia had a roughly 30 percent spike in type 2 diabetes.
RELATED Researchers creating registry for cancer among firefighters 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors help men with symptoms of enlarged prostates, such as urinary flow problems, by reducing hormone production.
The researchers warn men taking 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors not to stop taking the drug.
Instead, men taking these drugs should visit their doctors to see if their prescriptions need to be changed.
"These findings should not be a major concern for men taking 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors medications.
As doctors, we may need to review the way we monitor our patients to make sure we are extra vigilant for early signs of diabetes," said Laurence Stewart, a urologist at Spire Murrayfield Hospital and study author, in a news release.
"Anyone with concerns should speak to their general practitioner or urologist for advice on alternative treatments."
Three beagles were able to correctly detect lung cancer nearly 97 percent of the time, researchers report.
Photo courtesy of BIOSCENTDX April 11 (UPI) -- Researchers may have figured a way to use the keen sense of smell of dogs to detect deadly cancers, a new study says.
Three beagles were able to correctly detect lung cancer nearly 97 percent of the time, according to a study presented this week at the 2019 Experimental Biology meeting.
"Although there is currently no cure for cancer, early detection offers the best hope of survival," Heather Junqueira, lead researcher at BioScentDx and study author, said in a news release.
"A highly sensitive test for detecting cancer could potentially save thousands of lives and change the way the disease is treated."
The researchers trained beagles to tell the difference between normal blood serum and malignant lung cancer tissue.
The dogs identified the normal tissue 97.5 percent of the time and identified the cancerous tissue 96.7 percent of the time.
The smell receptors of all dogs are 10,000 times more sensitive than in humans.
The researchers now hope to use this sense to develop inexpensive, noninvasive ways of cancer detection.
"This work is very exciting because it paves the way for further research along two paths, both of which could lead to new cancer-detection tools," Junqueira said.
"One is using canine scent detection as a screening method for cancers, and the other would be to determine the biologic compounds the dogs detect and then design cancer-screening tests based on those compounds."
The company plans to use the dog-sniffing technique in a recently launched breast cancer study, it said in the news release.
Infection rates are rising for women under age 40 throughout the United States who haven't received the HPV vaccine.
Photo by CandyBox Images/Shutterstock April 11 (UPI) -- Infection rates are rising for women under age 40 throughout the United States who haven't received the HPV vaccine, a new study says.
This spike in infections is putting those women at a higher risk for a variety of cancers, 90 percent of which are otherwise preventable, according to a study published Tuesday in Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences.
"If we know which groups of people have the highest rates of HPV, we can do a better job of preventing cancer through vaccination and screening," said Andrew Brouwer, a researcher at University of Michigan and study author, in a news release.
Close to 80 million people in the U.S. are infected with HPV, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The agency estimates that having HPV can lead to more than 40,000 cases of cancers that include anal, oral and oropharyngeal cancers.
The CDC predicts that at least half of sexually active men and women will contract the virus in their lifetimes.
HPV testing for women began in 2003, so it's been difficult for health professionals to track changes in the virus since before then.
Recently, an experimental therapy has been shown to remove HPV in one-third of cervical cancer precursors.
"Did everyone in this cohort have higher HPV throughout their lifetimes?
Or is it more a function of biological or behavior changes when people reach this age?"
Brouwer said.
Moving forward, the researchers will try to figure out the HPV transmissions pathways between anal, genital and oral locations.
Women who lowered their LDL cholesterol below 70 milligrams had twice the risk of suffering brain bleeding during a stroke than women whose LDL sat between 100 and 1300 milligrams.
File Photo by sfam_photo/Shutterstock April 11 (UPI) -- General medical advice says that lowering artery-clogging LDL cholesterol is a good thing, but for women, new research says it shouldn't be too low.
Women who lowered their LDL cholesterol below 70 milligrams had twice the risk of suffering brain bleeding during a stroke than women whose LDL sat between 100 and 1,300 milligrams, according to a study published Wednesday in Neurology.
In contrast, high levels of LDL, known as bad cholesterol, is also one of the main risk factors for strokes.
"Strategies to lower cholesterol and triglyceride levels, like modifying diet or taking statins, are widely used to prevent cardiovascular disease," Pamela Rist, a researcher at Brigham and Woman's Hospital and study author, said in a news release.
"But our large study shows that in women, very low levels may also carry some risks.
Women already have a higher risk of stroke than men, in part because they live longer, so clearly defining ways to reduce their risk is important."
The researchers also found that having triglycerides levels that are too low can also cause hemorrhagic strokes, or strokes that cause brain bleeding.
These types of stroke are more rare than ischemic strokes, but deadlier because they're harder to treat.
RELATED Swapping red meat for healthy plant proteins may reduce heart disease risk Traditionally, high triglycerides can increase a person's chance for a stroke.
But the study shows that women with fasting triglyceride levels lower than 74 milligrams or non-fasting levels lower than 84 milligrams have twice the risk of a hemorrhagic stroke than women with much higher levels.
"Women with very low LDL cholesterol or low triglycerides should be monitored by their doctors for other stroke risk factors that can be modified, like high blood pressure and smoking, in order to reduce their risk of hemorrhagic stroke," Rist said.
"Also, additional research is needed to determine how to lower the risk of hemorrhagic stroke in women with very low LDL and low triglycerides."
New findings show that the molecular make-up of the breast milk of an expecting mother who is obese differs from an expecting mother at a normal weight, which could affect the weight of the child.
Photo by ylerlson/shutterstock April 10 (UPI) -- Whether a mother is a healthy weight or obese will largely predict the body composition of her child.
Now, researchers may have moved a little closer to figuring out why.
New findings show that the molecular makeup of the breast milk of an expecting mother who is obese differs from an expecting mother at a normal weight, which could affect the weight of her child, according to a study published in April in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition.
The researchers think that mothers with obesity and normal weight have varying metabolites that contribute to their children's weight composition.
"Childhood obesity increases risk for type 2 diabetes, and a host of other health complications.
Our aim is to identify the earliest risk factors that predict obesity in children," said Elvira Isganaitis, a researcher at the Joslin Diabetes Center and study lead author, in a news release.
"We know that one of those factors is nutritional exposures in the postnatal period."
RELATED Stillbirth risk may increase when mom sleeps on back late in pregnancy When a child reaches 1 month old, overweight or obese, and normal weight mothers had 10 metabolites that distinguished their breast milk.
Three of those were complex carbohydrates that could affect gut microbiota.
By the time the child hits 6 months old, the study showed 20 different metabolites in overweight and normal weight mothers.
"Our findings suggest that a specific mix of factors -- nucleotide derivatives and complex carbohydrates -- could be therapeutic targets to improve the profile of breast milk and possibly protect children from obesity," Isganaitis said.
The obese mothers also had milk adenine, which is linked to weight gain in babies.
RELATED Fetal nicotine exposure linked to SIDS The researchers say knowing how a mother's breast milk could affect a child's weight may give health professionals better insight on how to advise parents on better diet or exercise habits.
"Breastfeeding should be promoted and supported.
Ultimately, we would like to identify the metabolic pathways that allow breast milk to be beneficial in terms of infant weight gain, and other child health outcomes," Isganaitis said.
"The hope is that this data could also inform ways to make baby formula more protective in terms of future childhood obesity risk."
Researchers have built in those advances, developing a CRISPR-based tool able to delete long strands of DNA with sharp accuracy.
Photo by Caroline Davis2010/Flickr April 10 (UPI) -- In recent years, CRISPR-Cas9 technology has brought with it new hope in the field of gene editing.
Now, researchers have built in those advances, developing a CRISPR-based tool able to delete long strands of DNA with sharp accuracy, according to a study published Monday in Molecular Cell.
The new tool, called Type I CRISPR-Cas3, uses riboprotein complex in bacteria known as Cascade to pinpoint a DNA target and Cas3 finally shreds.
"But Cas3 goes where you want it, travels along the chromosome, and makes a spectrum of deletions tens of kilobases long," Yan Zhang, a researcher at University of Michigan and study lead author, said in a news release.
"This could make it a powerful screening tool to determine what large areas of DNA are most important for a particular disease."
In 2016, the Cas9 removed HIV-1 from the genome in human immune cells.
"Cas9 is a molecular scissor that goes where you want it and snips once," Zhang said.
The researchers say the CRISPR-Cas3 could help them to study long stretches of DNA that don't contain code to see what effect the shredder has.
Since the Cas3 is guided by RNA for target precision, the researchers think it may be less likely to mistakenly cut DNA.
Ultimately, they hope this discovery opens the door for new research in gene editing.
Researchers say that a rise in COPD worldwide among nonsmokers can be blamed on comorbidities and exposure to environmental chemicals.
Pictured, heavy traffic inches along on a main ring road under heavy pollution in Beijing in 2016.
File Photo by Stephen Shaver/UPI | License Photo April 10 (UPI) -- For years, more people have been developing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease around the world, and the number of nonsmokers with the condition has risen sharply, a new study says.
About 46 percent of nonsmokers with COPD in a study were exposed to biomass gas in the environment, according to research that will be presented this week at CHEST Congress 2019.
Another 26 percent had exposure to other toxic gases.
"Exposure to industrial smoke, environmental pollution and household smoke are major contributors for COPD in nonsmokers," said Sameer Arbat, a researcher from India and study lead author, in a news release.
Burning biomass like wood, agricultural crops, waste materials, animal manure and human sewage are burned can release carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.
In rural areas, people often burn biomass for cooking and other chores.
Roughly, 61 percent of people in the study live in rural areas.
The study suggests that many of these people may have been more susceptible to biomass and toxic gases due to their environments.
COPD is a lung disease that harms a person's ability to breathe and opens them up to other serious illnesses.
For women, COPD has been linked to obesity.
In fact, one study reported that non-smoking women with body mass index of 40 or more had a 13 percent higher risk of developing COPD than women in a healthy weight range.
RELATED Flu vaccinations may prevent hospitalization for COPD patients The World Health Organization reported more than 250 million cases of COPD around the globe.
The overwhelming number of COPD deaths, more than 90 percent, happen in low or middle-income countries around the world.
"There is a need to study this subset of nonsmokers having COPD further to determine the true cause of this increase," Arbat said.
People who eat plant-based diets show a reduction in risk factors for cardiovascular disease after they stopped eating red meat.
File Photo by Brent Hofacker/Shutterstock.com April 10 (UPI) -- Diets rich in vegetables, like the Mediterranean Diet, have been gaining popularity in the last few years, supplanting those that feature steak, hamburgers and other red meat.
Now, new research says that plant-based diets may be healthier for the heart.
Two studies released this week suggest that eating less red meat and replacing it with a diet rich in plant proteins can reduce a person's risk factor for having a heart attack, stroke or other cardiovascular event.
Researchers report that people who eat plant-based diets have a reduction in risk factors for cardiovascular disease after they stop eating red meat and replace it with healthy plant, according to a study published Monday in Circulation.
Those results were compared to people who ate less than 100 milligrams of red meat a day.
That supports findings from another study showing that men who eat more than 200 milligrams of meat per day had a 23 percent higher risk of death than those who didn't, according to research published Tuesday in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition.
"Previous findings from randomized controlled trials evaluating the effects of red meat on cardiovascular disease risk factors have been inconsistent," Marta Guasch-Ferre, a researcher at Harvard University and lead author on Monday's study, said in a news release.
"But our new study, which makes specific comparisons between diets high in red meat versus diets high in other types of foods, show that substituting red meat with high-quality protein sources lead to more favorable changes in cardiovascular risk factors."
The researchers in the first study analyzed blood concentration levels of cholesterol, lipoproteins, blood pressure and triglycerides for more than 1,800 people who ate red meat, comparing them to those who ate diets rich in fish, chicken and plant proteins.
They say this is the first meta-analysis study of randomized controlled trials to gauge the effects of switching out red meat for other types of food.
Men who took part in the second study who already had type 2 diabetes, cancer or cardiovascular disease had the greatest risk of dying after a 20-year follow-up.
The researchers say this highlights the need to study the effect of red meat on people with pre-existing conditions.
The American Institute of Cancer Research recommends eating no more than 18 ounces of cooked red meat each week.
A poor diet can lead to heart disease, which kills one in four people each year in the U.S., according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
It's also a leading risk factor for diabetes and obesity.
Plant-heavy diets can cut the risk of heart disease by 25 percent, according to another study.
"Asking 'Is red meat good or bad?'
is useless," said Meir Stampfer, a professor of nutrition at Harvard University.
"It has to be 'Compared to what?'
If you replace burgers with cookies or fries, you don't get healthier.
But if you replace red meat with healthy plant protein sources like nuts and beans, you get a health benefit."
Teeth whiteners contain hydrogen peroxide, which can harm the dentin tissue underneath the tooth's enamel.
File Photo by vitakhorzhevska/Shutterstock April 9 (UPI) -- Having a brighter smile doesn't always mean its a healthier smile.
Teeth whiteners contain hydrogen peroxide which can harm the dentin tissue underneath the tooth's enamel, according to three studies that will be presented this week during the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology annual meeting.
"We sought to further characterize what the hydrogen peroxide was doing to collagen," said Kelly Keenan, a researcher at Stockton University and study author, in a news release.
"We used entire teeth for the studies and focused on the impact hydrogen peroxide has on the proteins."
The tooth consists of the outer tooth enamel, the dentin layer and the tissue that connects the roots to the gums.
While most studies have concentrated on the enamel level, these findings study the effects of hydrogen peroxide on the collagen that makes up much of the dentin layer.
When the researchers applied hydrogen peroxide to dentin, it broke the protein down into pieces.
"Our results showed that treatment with hydrogen peroxide concentrations similar to those found in whitening strips is enough to make the original collagen protein disappear, which is presumably due to the formation of many smaller fragments," Keenan said.
The researchers say they will continue to see what effect hydrogen peroxide has on other teeth proteins and whether the damage it does to collagen is permanent.
The AAP has called on the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission to recall the Fisher-Price Rock 'n Play Sleeper, a product that has been linked to 32 infant sleeping deaths.
File photo by OndroM/Shutterstock April 9 (UPI) -- The American Academy of Pediatrics has called on the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission to recall Fisher-Price Rock 'n Play Sleeper, a product that has been linked to 32 infant sleeping deaths.
The AAP is warning parents to stop using the Fisher-Price product immediately after a Consumer Reports analysis published Monday also called for its recall.
"This product is deadly and should be recalled immediately," Kyle Yasuda, president of the American Academy of Pediatrics, said Tuesday in a news release.
"When parents purchase a product for their baby or child, many assume that if it's being sold in a store, it must be safe to use.
Tragically, that is not the case.
There is convincing evidence that the Rock 'n Play inclined sleeper puts infants' lives at risk, and CPSC must step up and take immediate action to remove it from stores and prevent further tragedies."
CPSC issued a warning on April 5 telling parents not to use the sleeper after an infant reaches three-months-old or is able to roll over in response to a Consumer Reports request for comment on its investigation, the results of which were not published until Monday.
RELATED Fetal nicotine exposure linked to SIDS CSPC told UPI it is investigating deaths linked to the sleeper and is evaluating the potential need for a recall.
"CPSC has identified a hazard with rollover issues in the Fisher-Price Rock 'n Play involving 10 infant deaths.
We issued an alert warning parents to stop using the Rock n' Play sleepers for children 3 months and older of if they can roll over before that age," Karla Crosswhite, a spokesperson for CPSC, told UPI.
"But our work does not stop there.
We are investigating other deaths that have occurred in the Rock 'n Play.
CPSC has requirements it must follow for any decisions concerning recalls.
If the evidence shows the need for a recall, we will take that step.
We continue to work on this very important safety issue."
Between 2011 and 2018, the Rock 'n Play has been linked to 32 deaths overall, which include 10 deaths mentioned in Monday's Consumer Reports article.
Some of the babies died from asphyxia.
RELATED Fussy baby may increase risk for mothers to develop depression "We cannot put any more children's lives at risk by keeping these dangerous products on the shelves," said Rachel Moon, chair of the AAP SIDS task force.
"The Rock 'n Play inclined sleeper should be removed from the market immediately.
It does not meet the AAP's recommendations for a safe sleep environment for any baby.
Infants should always sleep on their back, on a separate, flat and firm sleep surface without any bumpers or bedding."
The AAP cautions parents against purchasing sleep products like Rock 'n Play or other sleeping products that require infants to be restrained.
That includes strollers, car seats or any product that would allow a baby to turn into an unsafe sleeping position and suffocate.
In response to the infant deaths and the possibility of a recall, Chuck Scothon, general manager of Fisher-Price, said in a statement to UPI that the product meets "all applicable safety standards."
RELATED Smoking during pregnancy increases risk of SIDS "The safety of children is our highest priority," Scothon said.
"We stand by the safety of Rock 'n Play Sleeper.
The product meets all applicable safety standards, including those of the international standards organization, known as ASTM International, and is certified by the Juvenile Products Manufacturers Association."
"We continue to work closely with the Consumer Product Safety Commission regarding the safe use of our products, including the Rock 'n Play Sleeper," Scothon said.
"It is essential that the product warnings and instructions are always followed.
We will continue to do all we can to ensure that parents and caregivers have the information necessary to create a safe sleep environment for infants."
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio declared a state of emergency in response to a measles outbreak in a Brooklyn ultra-Orthodox Jewish community.
Photo by Dennis Van Tine/UPI | License Photo April 9 (UPI) -- New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio on Tuesday declared a state of emergency in response to a measles outbreak in a Brooklyn ultra-Orthodox Jewish community.
The declaration requires people living in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn to receive the measles-mumps-rubella, or MMR, vaccine to help curb the spread of the virus.
The city's health department will check vaccination records of people suspected of making contact with infected patients.
Anyone without a vaccination or proof of immunity from the virus could receive a $1,000 fine.
Since last October, the community has seen 285 cases of measles, prompting the city to order child care centers and yeshivas in Jewish communities throughout Williamsburg to keep non-vaccinated children from attending until the outbreak subsided.
"There's no question that vaccines are safe, effective and life-saving," de Blasio told reporters.
"I urge everyone, especially those in affected areas, to get their MMR vaccines to protect their children, families and communities."
In January, one yeshiva broke compliance with the city mandate, leading to more than 40 new cases of the measles.
Following that outbreak, the health commissioners office issued orders for all yeshivas in Williamsburg to exclude non-vaccinated children from attendance.
RELATED Number of 2019 measles cases surpasses total for 2018 "Measles is a highly contagious viral disease that can result in serious health complications, such as pneumonia and swelling of the brain," Oxiris Barbot, commissioner of the New York City Health Department, wrote in the order.
"About a third of reported measles cases have at least one complication and in some cases, measles can cause death."
So far, most of the cases have affected children under age 18.
Only 39 cases involve adults.
The order could be lifted as soon as April 17, when the city's health board plans to meet next.
Leading into the Passover holiday, when many will gather at temples and homes for services and seders, the health department is calling on New Yorkers, particularly people in the Orthodox Jewish community, to get the MMR vaccine.
Health officials are also urging people to vaccinate their children if they plan on traveling to upstate New York, Israel, Europe or other parts of the U.S. where outbreaks are occurring.
Throughout the U.S., 465 cases of measles have been reported across 19 states, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
An opioid-cannabinoid mixtures could also help cut dependence patients dependence on opioids to relieve pain, which could decrease their likelihood of developing an opioid addiction.
Photo by 7raysmarketing/Pixabay April 9 (UPI) -- A combination of marijuana and opioids could be more effective at reducing pain than using each substance alone, new research suggests.
The combination could also help cut patient dependence on opioids to relieve pain, which could decrease the likelihood of developing an addiction to the medication, according to a study presented Tuesday at the American Society of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics.
"These data provide additional evidence supporting the notion that opioid-cannabinoid mixtures that or effective for treating pain do not have greater and in some cases have a less, adverse a fax compared with larger doses of each drug," Vanessa Minervini, a researcher at the University of Texas health science Center at San Antonio and study author, said in a news release.
This study aligns with other research that backs the effectiveness of combining marijuana and opioids.
These studies propose that the cannabinoids contained in marijuana and opioids work together to heighten the pain-relieving qualities without increasing the addictive effects.
Individually, the two drugs are known to impair cognitive skills.
However, when the researchers used the opioid-cannabinoid mixture on rhesus monkeys, they observed no significant increases in memory loss or impulsivity.
The researchers note that these findings come as the nation battles the crippling effects of the opioid epidemic.
More than 130 people in the United States die each day from an opioid overdose, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse.
RELATED Colorado edible pot sending 33 times more people to ER than expected "The current opioid epidemic underscores the need for safe and defective pharmacotherapies for treating pain," Minervini said.
"Combining opioid receptor antagonists with drugs that relieve pain through actions at non-opioid mechanisms parentheses for example, cannabinoid receptors parentheses could be a useful strategy for reducing the dose of opioid needed to achieve pain relief."
Adequate intake of some nutrients from food was linked to a reduction in all-cause mortality in a recent study, which also found that dietary supplements do not lower risk of death.
File Photo by Alliance/Shutterstock April 9 (UPI) -- Consuming too many nutrients, particularly when they come from supplements, may increase the risk of death, new research shows.
Taking in at least 1,000 milligrams of calcium a day from supplements is associated with a higher risk of cancer death, according to a study published Tuesday in the Annals of Internal Medicine.
People with no vitamin D deficiency also faced an increased death risk when they consumed the nutrient in a supplement.
"As potential benefits and harm of supplement use continue to be studied, some studies have found associations between excess nutrient intake and adverse outcomes, including increased risk of certain cancers," Fang Fang Zhang, a researcher at Tufts University and study senior author, said in news release.
"It is important to understand the role that the nutrient and its source might play in health outcomes, particularly if the affect might not be beneficial."
On the other hand, consuming adequate amounts of calcium from food had no association with cancer.
And eating adequate amounts of vitamins A and K, magnesium and zinc from a food source could also lower death risk.
Consuming some of those nutrients could even reduce cardiovascular risks, the study says.
RELATED Vitamin C may reduce time for ICU stay In contrast, past studies have shown that consuming calcium from supplements may increase cardiovascular disease.
"Our results support the idea that, while supplement use contributes to an increased level of total nutrient intake, there are beneficial associations with nutrients from foods that aren't seen with supplements," Zhang said.
This study also confirms the importance of identifying the nutrient source when evaluating mortality outcomes. "
Children who used telemedicine were prescribed antibiotics during 52 percent of sessions, a study showed.
Photo by Rawpixelcom/Shutterstock April 8 (UPI) -- Doctors may be overprescribing medication for children during telemedicine visits, a new study says.
Children who used telemedicine were prescribed antibiotics during 52 percent of sessions, according to new research published in April in Pediatrics.
That's compared to kids who visited kids who received prescriptions during 42 percent of urgent care visits and 31 percent who received them during primary care provider visits.
"In recent years, the use of telemedicine for acute, primary care concerns has increased among children, said Kristin Ray, a researcher at University of Pittsburgh Medical Center and study lead author, in a news release.
"We know very little about the care children receive during these direct-to-consumer telemedicine visits, which occur during with doctors outside of the child's usual pediatric office."
The researcher compared antibiotic prescriptions given for acute respiratory infections during telemedicine visits with those prescribed during primary care and urgent care visits.
Regardless of its effectiveness, the practice of consulting with doctors over the internet has caught on among all age groups.
Another study reported that 90 percent of patients prefer telemedicine visits over traditional in-person conversations with a doctor.
And insurers have responded to the popularity of telemedicine.
"Insurers are increasingly offering telemedicine -- with 96 percent of large business insurance plans now offering coverage -- and as a result, millions of children now have access, and our prior work found that use is rapidly increasing," Ray said.
RELATED Older heart failure patients leave nursing facilities too early However, the researchers suggest prescriptions given during telemedicine visits are less likely to meet clinical guidelines and overprescribing could lead to antibiotic resistance.
"As a general pediatrician, I'm interested in making care easier and less burdensome for families, and I think there are many technological innovations that aim to do this, but I think it is also to make sure the quality of care that children receive remains high," Ray said.
Researchers say that when pregnant women sleep on their backs, the weight of the uterus decreases the blood flow to the baby.
File Photo by Chaikom/Shutterstock April 8 (UPI) -- The risk of stillbirth may increase when a pregnant woman sleeps on her back during the late phase of gestation, new research shows.
A study published this month in The Lancet found that in many such births, the mothers slept on their backs 28 weeks into the pregnancy.
The findings come from a study conducted in New Zealand that led to more research on the subject in Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States.
"In later pregnancy (after 28 weeks), it is safer to go to sleep on your side than on your back," the study authors said.
"A woman who wakes up on her back shouldn't worry, but should settle to sleep again on her side."
The researchers say when pregnant women sleep on their backs, the weight of the uterus decreases the blood flow to the baby.
In the United States, stillborn births account for about 1 percent of pregnancies, or roughly 24,000 births annually, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
"The next phase is to ensure that there is consistent advice from healthcare professionals and we will be looking to see if there are ways of helping to support women to sleep in the side position.
Only a small proportion of women will be affected," Stacey said.
"But the studies that we did following the first findings suggested that women were quite happy to change their going to sleep position if it was better for their babies."
A nurse displays a measles vaccination.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Monday that the number of reported measles cases in the United States increased by over 100 since last week, to 465.
Photo by Francis R. Malarig/EPA-EFE April 8 (UPI) -- Reported cases of measles increased by nearly 100 last week, to 465 across 19 states, the Centers for Disease Control and prevention said on Monday.
A week ago, the CDC reported 387 cases in 15 states.
The figure, reported on Monday, is the second-highest reported total since the contagious disease was declared eliminated in the United States in 2000, and is approaching the record high since that year of 667 in 2014.
The increase has been driven in part by groups who, largely for religious or anti-government reasons, choose not to receive anti-measles vaccinations.
Most people who acquire the disease have not been vaccinated, the CDC said, although it noted that outbreaks have been linked to travelers who brought measles back from other countries dealing with outbreaks, including Israel, Ukraine and the Philippines.
Three or more localized cases qualifies as an outbreak, and thus far include Rockland County, N.Y.; New York City; Washington State; Michigan, New Jersey and Butte and Santa Cruz counties in California.
The outbreaks in New York State and New Jersey account for most of the identified cases, and have been traced to unvaccinated members of Orthodox Jewish communities, the CDC said.
Legislation to end religious and non-medical exemptions to vaccinations of school-age children has been proposed in New York State and New Jersey.
Only California, Mississippi and West Virginia have similar laws in place.
Measles can spread when it reaches a U.S. community where groups of people are unvaccinated, the CDC said.
Common symptoms include fever, runny nose, cough and a rash that can spread across the entire body.
A small percentage of those infected can develop pneumonia, swelling of the brain or other serious symptoms.
RELATED Number of 2019 measles cases surpasses total for 2018
People over 65 who suffer a heart attack are 34 percent less likely to be treated with percutaneous coronary intervention to open blocked arteries than younger patients.
File Photo by Kzenon/Shutterstock/UPI April 8 (UPI) -- Older heart attack patients are less likely to receive certain life-saving treatments than younger patients, a new study shows.
People over age 65 who suffer a heart attack are 34 percent less likely to be treated with percutaneous coronary intervention, or angioplasty, to open blocked arteries than younger patients, according to an American Heart Association meeting report presented this week.
After the blockage is removed, older patients are also 36 percent likely to receive a stent to keep the artery open and there's a 34 percent lower chance they will receive that stent within the crucial 48-hour period.
"Our study found that seniors were less likely to undergo PCI for a heart attack and if they do receive the procedure it's not within the optimal time for the best possible outcome," study author Wojciech Rzechorzek, a resident at Mount Sinai West Hospital in New York, said in a statement.
"Their prognosis is worse than for younger patients with the same conditions, and this lack of treatment or delay in treatment could be a factor."
Even though they stay in the hospital a half-day longer, older patients pay less to receive care ($3,231), on average, than younger patients.
"I am surprised that the costs of stay are lower despite increased length of stay but this could be primarily driven by decreased use of PCI, which is an expensive procedure," Rzechorzek said.
The study says during their time in hospitals, older patients have a 62 percent higher chance of developing heart failure, a 28 percent higher chance going into shock and a 21 percent increased chance of cardiac arrest.
A January study reported that less than 1 percent of left main disease cases receive PCI treatment, despite the effectiveness of the procedure.
Although the new study stops short of explaining why older patients receive fewer PCI than young patients, other research suggests the procedure might be too aggressive for people of advanced age.
"Elderly patients are underrepresented in clinical trials, and we need more prospective studies evaulating the impact of PCI on outcomes," Rzechorzek said.
Kids who grow up in poor neighborhoods have a higher genetic risk of underperforming in school and having children too early.
File Photo by Tyler Olson/Shutterstock April 8 (UPI) -- When it comes to future success in life, where a child lives and who their parents are can be tightly connected, a new study says.
Kids who grow up in poor neighborhoods have a higher genetic risk of underperforming in school and having children too early, according to research published Monday in Nature Human Behavior.
These kids were also more likely to move into poor neighborhoods themselves as they get older.
"But genetic risk alone was not enough to explain why poorer children from poorer versus more affluent neighborhoods received less education and were more likely to Not in Education, Employment or Training (NEET) by late adolescence," Daniel Belsky, assistant professor of epidemiology at Columbia University and study author, said in a news release.
"The data on education could explain only a fraction (10 to 15 percent) of the link between neighborhood risk and poor educational qualifications and NEET status, suggesting that there is ample opportunity for neighborhoods to influence these outcomes."
Between 1994 and 1995, researchers screened 15,000 high school students as they moved into adulthood, as well as more than 2,200 twins born in England.
They looked for things like schizophrenia, obesity, when they had their first child and what level of education they ultimately attained.
RELATED Black babies born premature get worse health care than other races The researchers used Google Street View and geospatial data to pinpoint which neighborhoods were most likely to have negative physical and mental health outcomes.
"Surprisingly, for obesity, one of the most prevalent and costly health problems facing this generation, we found no link between neighborhood and genetic risk," said Candice Odgers, a researcher at University of California at Irvine and study author.
"Children grew up in worse-off for neighborhood were more likely to become obese by 18, but they did not carry a higher genetic risk for obesity than their peers living in more advantaged neighborhoods. "
While the findings didn't show a link between genetic risk and childhood mental disorder, they did reveal that a combination of genetics and zip code predicted their future health outcomes.
RELATED Living near green space lowers risk for children to develop mental disorders Other studies also reflect the same connection between poor neighborhoods and poor health.
"In our study, polygenic risk scores showed a link between genetics and neighborhoods for teen pregnancy and poor educational outcomes.
This finding suggests that we should consider neighborhoods when interpreting the results of studies searching for genes related to these outcomes and also that we should consider genes when examining the effects of a neighborhood," Belsky said.
Researchers show that as obesity rates have increased in recent decades, type 2 diabetes diagnoses in adolescents and young adults have gone up as well.
Photo by Andrey_Popov/Shutterstock April 8 (UPI) -- When it comes to type 2 diabetes, the earlier a person receives a diagnosis, the higher their risk of having a cardiovascular event, new research shows.
Anyone diagnosed with type 2 diabetes prior to age 40 has an increased risk for heart attack, stroke, atrial fibrillation and death from any cause, according to a study published Monday in Circulation.
"Our study shows the differences in excess diabetes risk are tied to how old the person is when they are diagnosed with type two diabetes," Naveed Sattar, a researcher at the University of Glasgow and study lead author, said in a news release.
The researchers point to obesity as a major factor for climbing type 2 diabetes numbers among young people.
This has led to more young people than ever being diagnosed with type 2 diabetes, according to the study.
For women, the threat of heart disease resulting from type 2 diabetes is much higher than for men.
According to the Office on Women's Health, women who have heart attacks have lower survival rates and receive worse quality for treatment following the even.
About 30 million people in the U.S. have diabetes, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Among American adults with type 2 diabetes, 12 percent are overweight and 21 percent are obese.
The older a person is when they receive a type 2 diagnosis, the lower their cardiovascular disease risk.
RELATED Depression linked to increased risk of death for people with HIV "This suggests we need to be more aggressive and controlling risk factors in younger type two diabetes population and especially in women," Sattar said.
"And, far less effort and resources could be spent screening people 80 and older for type two diabetes unless symptoms are present.
Furthermore, our work could also be used to encourage middle-aged people at elevated diabetes risk to adopt lifestyle changes to delay their diabetes by several years."
On average, smoking after a cancer diagnosis can lift costs to $11,000 per patient.
Photo by Pexels/Pixabay April 5 (UPI) -- Smoking after a cancer diagnosis can lead to soaring healthcare costs, a new study says.
On average, smoking after a cancer diagnosis can lift costs by an additional $11,000 per patient, according to research published Friday in JAMA Open Network.
"These data estimate that smoking could result in $3.4 billion in additional cancer treatment costs national if patients continue to smoke after being diagnosed with cancer," Graham Warren, vice chairman at the radiation oncology center at the University of South Carolina and study lead author, said in a news release.
"We know that continued smoking can lead to bad treatment outcomes for patients with cancer.
The 2014 Surgeon General's Report concluded that continued smoking after a cancer diagnosis increases the risk of dying from cancer and other smoking-related diseases.
This is really the first time that the economic burden of smoking on cancer treatment has been estimated."
The researchers estimated the extra costs associated with smoking and how it interfered with existing cancer treatments.
The study, however, did not factor the cost of smoking cessation on overall costs.
"With the rising costs of cancer treatment, we really wanted to understand the economic impact for cancer patients," said Michael Cummings, co-leader of tobacco control research at Medical University of South Carolina and study author.
The researchers say learning about these costs will better prepare them on how to deal with the problem.
In all, smoking accounts for about 480,000 deaths each year in the U.S., according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
"The best decision a patient with cancer can make is to decide to quit smoking.
The next step is to put resources into identifying the best treatment approach for all cancer patients, including those who smoke when they are diagnosed with cancer," Warren said.
Findings from a new study showed that women from two groups who participated in the research were 75 percent and 65 percent less likely to develop adenosquamous and others of cervical cancers.
File Photo by Maridav/Shutterstock April 5 (UPI) -- Cervical cancer was once one of the most common cancers in the United States, but testing has advanced testing methods have reduced danger associated with the disease.
However, until recently, researchers had yet to discover whether testing could help prevent some of the rare forms of cervical cancer.
Findings from a new study, published Wednesday in BMJ, showed that women from two groups who participated in the research were 75 percent and 65 percent less likely to develop adenosquamous and others of cervical cancers.
The researchers looked at 4,200 cases of invasive cervical cancer between 2002 to 2011 in the National Swedish Cancer Registry.
Only 338 were not among the most frequently identified cervical cancers.
From there, the researchers randomly chose 30 cases and figured the risk of adenosquamous cell carcinoma and other rare forms of cervical cancer, finding that most would have been significantly less likely to develop cervical cancer had they participated in screenings.
Squamous cell cancer accounts for 90 percent of all cervical cancers, according to the National Institutes of Health.
On the other hand, one study says adenosquamous is responsible for between 0.4 and 4 percent of cases.
Cervical cancer is the 14th most common form of the disease in the U.S., according to National Institutes of Health.
RELATED Framework offers doctors method to counter fears about vaccines According to the study, high-risk HPV, the main risk factor for cervical cancer, appeared in 70 percent of the rare tumors.
The most common type was HPV 18, then HPV 16.
HPV is passed on through oral sex, anal or vaginal intercourse and other skin-to-skin contact.
While condoms can sharply decrease the transmission of HPV, they don't wipe it out altogether.
Most HPV cases are diagnosed in women between ages 35 and 44, but about 15 percent of incidents are in women older than 65.
"This shows that rare types of cervical cancer can be effectively prevented through screening," co-author Pr Sparn a researcher at Karolinska Institutet and study lead author, said in a news release.
The risk of having a stroke increases by 35 percent for every four extra drinks a person consumes.
Photo by Life-Of-Pix/Pixabay April 5 (UPI) -- For years, people have thought having a couple of drinks a day may lower their risk of stroke but it turns out the opposite may be true, a new study says.
The risk of having a stroke increases by 35 percent for every four extra drinks a person consumes, according to research published Thursday in The Lancet.
"Using genetics is a novel way to assess the health effects of alcohol, and to sort out whether moderate drinking really is protective, or whether it's slightly harmful.
Our genetic analyses have helped us understand the cause-and-effect relationships," Iona Millwood, a researcher at the University of Oxford and study lead author, said in a news release.
People with genes increase risk for high alcohol intake are more likely to drink excessively, and be at higher risk for high blood pressure and stroke.
RELATED Hot tea linked to increased risk of esophageal cancer For the study, the researchers followed more than 500,000 people in China for 10 years.
More than 160,000 of them had genetic variants that greatly reduced their alcohol intake from close to zero to about four drinks a day.
Men with the variant had a 50-fold difference in intake than those without it.
This told the researchers that not only does alcohol increase the stroke risk but moderate drinking does nothing cut it down.
"There are no protective effects of moderate alcohol intake against stroke.
Even moderate alcohol consumption increases the chances of having a stroke.
The findings for heart attack were less clear-cut, so we plan to collect more evidence," said Zhengming Chen, a researcher at the University of Oxford and co-author.
After the 10-year follow-up, about 10,000 men had suffered strokes and 2,000 had heart attacks, which the researchers say suggests drinking has a greater effect on the heart.
In the U.S., about 140,000 people die each year from stroke, according to the Centers for the Disease Control and Prevention.
"Stroke is a major cause of death and disability.
This large collaborative study has shown that stroke rates are increased by alcohol.
This should help inform personal choices and public health strategies," said Liming Li, a researcher at Peking University and study co-author.
Canadian adults with migraines who saw their parents engaged in domestic violence had a 67 percent higher risk of attempting suicide when they got older.
Photo by Staff Sgt.
Jonathon Fowler/U.S.
Air Force April 4 (UPI) -- Researchers have unveiled a link between migraines, violence and suicide attempts, a new study says.
Canadian adults with migraines who saw their parents engaged in domestic violence had a 67 percent higher risk of attempting suicide when they got older, according to findings published in the Archives of Suicide Research.
The study also showed that adults with migraines who were sexually abused as children had three times the risk of attempting suicide.
Overall, however, a high number of Canadians who have migraines have also attempted suicide -- even without other risk factors.
"Even after taking into account most of the known risk factors for suicide attempts, those with migraines had 77 percent higher odds of having attempted suicide in comparison to those without migraines.
Almost one-third -- 30 percent -- of all Canadians who have attempted suicide are migraineurs," Professor Esme Fuller-Thomson, a researcher at the University of Toronto and study lead author, said in a news release.
Adults who experienced physical abuse as a child also had double the risk for suicide versus those who did not.
The researchers analyzed data on nearly 22,000 Canadians, 2,223 of whom reported having a migraine diagnosis, from the 2012 Canadian Community Health Survey-Mental Health.
In all, 7.3 percent of men and 9.3 percent of women in the group had attempted suicide.
"When we examined only the respondents with migraine, we found that a history of exposure to parental domestic violence, childhood sexual and physical abuse played a huge role, explaining 23 percent of the variability in suicide attempts," said Gwyneth A. Hodgins, a researcher at the University of Toronto and a study co-author.
"To put this number in context, most of the other known risk factors for suicide attempts including gender, race, age, education, household income, level of chronic pain, and history of substance dependence, anxiety disorder and depression cumulatively only explained 26 percent of the variability in suicide attempts."
The Waterloo Region Suicide Prevention Council reports that 4,000 Canadians die each year from suicide.
"Clearly those with migraine are an extremely vulnerable population.
Knowledge of the added risk of suicide attempts associated with migraineurs with a high level of chronic pain, lower income and a history of adverse childhood experiences, substance dependence, anxiety disorders and depression will hopefully help clinicians improve targeting and outreach to this population," Fuller-Thomson said.
GENEVA/LONDON (Reuters) - Disease experts were evaluating on Friday whether an outbreak of Ebola in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) that has killed more than 700 people and is continuing to spread now constitutes an international emergency, the World Health Organization said.
FILE PHOTO: Health workers carry a newly admitted confirmed Ebola patient into a treatment centre in Butembo in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, March 28, 2019.
REUTERS/Baz Ratner/File Photo WHOs independent Emergency Committee will analyze the latest epidemiological data to detect any evolution in the deadly virus and whether it may cross borders to neighboring Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan.
Panel chairman Professor Robert Steffen is to announce the decision at a 1700gmt press conference.
Declaring the epidemic a public health emergency of international concern would signal that greater resources and international coordination are needed.
It could also include recommendations on travel or trade.
They will look into what is the risk of international spread, has this risk got bigger since the last time they met, and what is the capacity of the response, WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic told a Geneva news briefing.
Experts have declared four emergencies in the past decade: the H1N1 virus that caused an influenza pandemic (2009), a major Ebola outbreak in West Africa (2014), polio (2014) and Zika virus (2016).
The Ebola outbreak - by far the biggest Congo has seen, and the worlds second largest in history - was declared by national authorities in August last year.
It is concentrated in Congos North Kivu and Ituri provinces.
It has already infected at least 1,206 people, of whom 764 have died - giving a death rate of 63 percent.
They include 20 new confirmed cases reported by the health ministry on Thursday, another one-day record after 18 on Wednesday.
Two workers at the Butembo airport tested positive, it said.
REGAINING ACCESS Transmission has intensified in Butembo and Katwa in northeast Congo, leading to an increase in cases reported in recent weeks, after a period of decline, the WHO said.
Attacks by armed groups, including the setting on fire of an Ebola treatment center run by Medecins Sans Frontieres in February, cut off access for health workers to some areas.
Its normal that when you start regaining the access you see those cases ... and that partially explains the rise in numbers, Jasarevic said.
Nearly 100,000 people have been vaccinated so far.
Ebola spreads through contact with bodily fluids.
It causes hemorrhagic fever with severe vomiting, diarrhea and bleeding.
A devastating epidemic of the viral disease swept through Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea in West Africa from 2014-2016 and killed more than 11,300 people.
Experts said a key factor hampering efforts to bring this epidemic under control is a lack of trust among the affected communities in health workers.
The community in North Kivu must be at the center of the response, their trust and ownership is critical and is extremely challenging, said Jeremy Farrar, director of Britains Wellcome Trust global health charity, said in a statement.
Essential measures include trust, communication, care of patients and their families, infection control, contact tracing, ring vaccination and safe burials.
It is ultimately these measures that will bring this epidemic to an end, he said.
FILE PHOTO: Logo of Bayer AG is pictured at the annual results news conference of the German drugmaker in Leverkusen, Germany February 27, 2019.
REUTERS/Wolfgang Rattay/File Photo FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Bayer said on Friday it would comply with a U.S. federal judges order to enter mediation with a plaintiff who claims the company failed to warn against an alleged cancer risk from its Roundup weedkiller.
Bayer has seen billions wiped off its market value since August, when a first U.S. jury found Bayer liable because Monsanto, acquired by Bayer for $63 billion last year, had not warned of the alleged risk from Roundup, which is based on active ingredient glyphosate.
It suffered a similar courtroom defeat last month and more than 10,000 cases are pending.
U.S. District Judge Vince Chhabria, who presided over the first two cases in federal court, said in a filing dated Thursday that Bayer and another plaintiff, Elaine Stevick, were ordered to start confidential mediation.
The parties should propose a mediator in their case management statement; if they cannot agree, the Court will appoint someone, the judge ordered, cancelling a previously scheduled May 20 trial date.
Bayer said on Friday it would comply with the order in good faith, while believing strongly in the extensive body of reliable science supporting the safety of Roundup.
As this litigation is still in the early stages with only two verdicts and no cases that have run their course through appeal we will also remain focused on defending the safety of glyphosate-based herbicides in court, it said.
GENEVA (Reuters) - The World Health Organisation (WHO) said on Friday that it feared outbreaks of infectious diseases due to dirty water and people fleeing fighting nearing Tripoli, where it has about two weeks of emergency supplies for hospitals and health facilities.
After a week of fighting, 75 people have been killed and 323 wounded, including seven civilians killed and 10 wounded, Dr Syed Jaffar Hussain, WHO representative in Libya, told a Geneva news briefing by telephone from Tripoli.
The WHO has delivered trauma kits and medicines to hospitals, he said, adding: These supplies will last for two weeks, the acute phase.
So far 6,000 have fled the fighting but WHO has contingency plans in case thousands if not hundreds of thousands are displaced in the acute phase of fighting.
COPENHAGEN (Reuters) - Novo Nordisk and Gilead Sciences will join forces on a clinical trial combining drugs from the two pharmaceutical firms to treat a progressive fatty liver disease known as NASH.
The clinical trial will be a study combining Novo Nordisks semaglutide drug and Gileads cilofexor and firsocostat for treatment of patients with Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), Novo Nordisk, best known for its diabetes drugs, said on Friday.
NASH is a complex disease that often affects people with diabetes and metabolic syndrome.
Currently, patients living with NASH have limited treatment options, said Gileads chief scientific officer John McHutchison in a statement.
In February, Gilead said a late-stage study of the experimental drug selonsertib aimed at treating NASH failed to meet its main goal.
Analysts have projected the market for NASH treatments to reach $20 billion to $35 billion as populations increasingly develop the disease fueled by obesity and diabetes.
Without treatment, sufferers can develop advanced damage, including the scarring known as fibrosis; cirrhosis, which destroys liver function; and even cancer.
Novo is currently testing semaglutide, already approved to treat diabetes, as a once-daily treatment for NASH in phase 2.
Gileads Cilofexor and firsocostat have not been approved by any regulatory authorities.
PARIS/LYON (Reuters) - A French court has ruled that Monsanto was liable for the sickness of a farmer who inhaled one of its weedkillers, in another legal setback for the Bayer-owned business over health claims.
In the latest stage of a decade-long legal tussle, the appeals court in Lyon on Thursday found in favor of farmer Paul Francois claim that Monsantos Lasso weedkiller had made him sick and that the products labeling had been inadequate.
Francois, 55, says he suffered neurological problems, including memory loss, fainting and headaches, after accidentally inhaling Lasso in 2004 while working on his farm.
Mr Francois justifiably concludes that the product, due to its inadequate labeling that did not respect applicable regulations, did not offer the level of safety he could legitimately expect, the court said in its ruling.
The latest verdict, however, did not determine compensation for the farmer, which will now be considered by another court in Lyon.
Francois is seeking about 1 million euros ($1.1 million) in damages.
Bayer, which acquired Monsanto in a $63 billion deal last year, said it was considering its legal options, including an appeal before Frances highest court.
French cereal farmer Paul Francois, head of the Phyto-Victims association, attends a news conference, after the verdict in his appeals trial against U.S. Monsanto firm, in Paris, France, April 11, 2019.
REUTERS/Charles Platiau The German chemicals group added that crop-protection products do not pose a risk for human health if they are used according to the terms of use set out in their regulatory approval.
Mr Francois had won rulings against Monsanto in 2012 and 2015 before Frances top court overturned the decisions and ordered the new hearing in Lyon.
We are all happy to have won but it came at a heavy price, Francois told reporters in Paris.
Its a big sigh of relief.
Its been 12 years of fighting, 12 years during which I had to put my whole life on hold.
Lasso was banned in France in 2007 after the product had been withdrawn in some other countries.
It used a different active substance to glyphosate, the chemical contained in Monsantos best-selling weedkiller Roundup and the target of lawsuits in the United States over alleged cancer links.
The company has been found liable in two trials in California brought by cancer sufferers who have been awarded tens of millions of dollars in damages.
Bayer is appealing against those rulings.
Slideshow (3 Images) The legal troubles surrounding glyphosate have contributed to Bayer losing about 30 billion euros in market value since last August.
The groups chief executive on Thursday said it was massively affected by the litigation.
After the announcement of the decision, Bayers shares extended a fall to trade about 1.5 percent down before recovering some of the losses.
($1 = 0.8874 euros)
GENEVA (Reuters) - South Korea won the bulk of its appeal on Thursday in a dispute at the World Trade Organization over import bans and testing requirements it had imposed on Japanese seafood in the wake of the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster.
FILE PHOTO: A logo is pictured outside the World Trade Organization (WTO) headquarters next to a red traffic light in Geneva, Switzerland, October 2, 2018.
REUTERS/Denis Balibouse/File Photo Last year a WTO dispute panel supported Japan, saying South Korea was wrong to keep its initial trade restrictions in place.
But Thursdays ruling overturned several key points of that verdict, saying South Koreas measures were not overly restrictive and did not unfairly discriminate against Japan.
The appeal looked solely at the panels interpretation of the WTO rules, without going into the facts about the levels of contaminants in Japanese food products or what the right level of consumer protection should be.
The South Korean government highly appreciates the WTOs ruling and welcomes the decision, South Koreas Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy said in a statement.
Following the ruling, South Koreas current trade restrictions on Japanese seafood will stay in place, the ministry statement added.
It is regrettable that Japans claims were not accepted, Takamori Yoshikawa, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, said in a statement, adding that Japan will continue asking South Korea to abolish trade restrictions through talks.
Japan also plans to ask 23 other countries or areas that have restrictions on Japanese food imports to eliminate or ease such measures, telling them it is ensuring the safety of its shipments, the ministry said.
South Korea widened its initial ban on Japanese fishery imports in 2013 to cover all seafood from eight Japanese prefectures including Fukushima.
Japan launched its trade complaint at the WTO in 2015, arguing that radioactive levels were safe and that a number of other nations, including the United States and Australia, had lifted or eased Fukushima-related restrictions.
South Korea imported 10.9 billion yen ($98 million) worth of Japanese seafood in the year to August 2013 before it broadened its restrictions.
Those imports then fell to 8.4 billion yen the following year, according to the Japanese government.
The logo of Ant Financial Services Group, Alibaba's financial affiliate, is pictured at its headquarters in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, China January 24, 2018.
REUTERS/Shu Zhang SINGAPORE (Reuters) - A mutual health aid plan launched by Ant Financial Services Group, the dominant fintech player in China, has amassed more than 50 million users and is aiming for 300 million within two years, the company said late on Thursday.
The plan, dubbed Xiang Hu Bao or literally mutual protection, is marketed on Ant Financials flagship mobile payment app Alipay and provides participants a basic medical coverage with the risks and expenses distributed across all members.
It has gained unexpected popularity among Chinas low-end population, poorer sections of society, who struggle to afford medical services due to the governments inadequate social healthcare system and are under-served by traditional commercial insurers as they cannot meet the premiums and advance payments required with commercial health insurance products.
About 47 percent of Xiang Hu Bao plans 50 million participants are migrant workers and 31 percent are from rural areas and county-level regions, Ant Financial said.
Chinese billionaire Jack Mas Ant Financial was spun off from e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Co Ltd, which went public in 2014, and has played a vital role in shaping the financial technology landscape in China, shaking up the state-controlled traditional banking, asset management and insurance sectors with disruptive new products.
The expansion of Xiang Hu Bao was even faster than Ant Financials blockbuster online spare cash management platform Yue Bao, which took more than six months to reach the 50 million user milestone after launching in 2013 and has grown to become the worlds largest money market fund with 1.13 trillion yuan ($168.2 billion) in net asset as of end-2018.
China has a population of nearly 1.4 billion.
The Xiang Hu Bao health plan protects participants against 100 critical illnesses with a one-time payout of up to 300,000 yuan ($44,650).
The cost is shared equally by all other participants, capped at 188 yuan per month for individual users in 2019, according to its description.
Despite its mutual insurance features, Ant Financial said the plan is not a health insurance product, indicating the product is not regulated by the countrys insurance regulator.
Ant Financial has obtained a range of licenses to operate financial services, including payments, online banking, insurance, micro lending, and fund management in Chinas vast financial market.
Its rapid expansion has propelled regulators to place it under increased scrutiny to prevent potential systematic financial risks.
(Reuters Health) - About one-third of U.S. women have used marijuana before sex, a small study suggests, and those who do report increased desire and better orgasms.
A woman holds a joint on the day Canada became the first industrialized nation to legalize recreational marijuana at Trinity Bellwoods Park, in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, October 17, 2018.
REUTERS/Carlos Osorio Marijuana use has been on the rise among U.S. adults as a growing number of states pass laws legalizing it for medical and recreational purposes, researchers note in Sexual Medicine.
Although marijuana is thought to act on the cannabinoid receptor in the brain, which is involved in sexual function, little research to date has examined the drugs impact on sexual health, the study team notes.
The researchers surveyed 373 female patients at an obstetrics and gynecology practice in an academic medical center in Saint Louis, Missouri.
Overall, 127 women, or 34 percent, reported using marijuana before sexual activity.
Women who used marijuana before sex were twice as likely as those who didnt to say they had satisfactory orgasms, the survey found.
And women who regularly used the drug were twice as likely as occasional users to have satisfying orgasms.
Whats new about this study is that marijuana is framed as being useful for sex, said Joseph Palamar, a population health researcher at NYU Langone Medical Center in New York City who wasnt involved in the study.
Typically, drugs are investigated as risk factors for sex.
I think this paper signifies that times are changing, Palamar said by email.
Like alcohol and many recreational drugs, marijuana has long been linked to an increased risk of sexual activity among teens, and some previous research has also tied marijuana to unsafe sex and higher rates of sexually transmitted diseases.
In the current study, however, Dr. Becky Lynn of Saint Louis University School of Medicine and colleagues focused on the connection between marijuana and womens satisfaction with their sex lives, sex drive, orgasms, lubrication and pain during intercourse.
Lynn didnt respond to requests for comment.
Overall, 197 women in the study, or about 52 percent, didnt use marijuana at all.
Another 49 women, or 13 percent, used the drug but didnt indulge before sex.
Women who did use marijuana before sex appeared to have more lubrication and less pain during intercourse than women who didnt, but the differences were too small to rule out the possibility they were due to chance.
Compared to occasional marijuana users, women who regularly used the drug reported better lubrication, and increased satisfaction with their sex lives - but here, too, the differences were too small to rule out the possibility of chance.
Beyond its small size, one limitation of the study is that it wasnt a controlled experiment designed to prove whether or how marijuana might directly impact sexual health.
Its also unclear whether women smoked pot or used another form of the drug, or if this was the only substance women were using that might alter their sexual function.
Another drawback is that the study included mostly white women who were married or in relationships, making it possible the results dont represent what all women would experience.
And, the study didnt explicitly spell out what type of sex it was asking about, making it difficult to say for sure what types of activity might be impacted by marijuana use.
It is unknown how experienced these women were with marijuana or in combining marijuana and sex.
We also dont know who intentionally combined marijuana with sex, Palamar said.
A lot more research is needed as very few studies have focused on the positives of marijuana and sex, Palamar added.
SOURCE: bit.ly/2P4MWZx Sexual Medicine, online March 2, 2019.
(Reuters Health) - The odds of smoking for U.S. adolescents are 50 percent higher in rural areas than in urban areas, even as rates of teen smoking in both settings have fallen, a recent study found.
FILE PHOTO: Cigarette butts in an ashtray in Los Angeles, California, May 31, 2012.
REUTERS/Jonathan Alcorn Using data from more than 95,600 adolescents who participated in the National Survey of Drug Use and Health, researchers analyzed smoking rates over two periods: 2008-2010 and 2014-2016.
Fifteen percent of the youth lived in rural counties.
Teenage smoking in urban areas fell by half from the first period to the second, after accounting for socioeconomic factors such as gender, race, ethnicity and family income.
But it only went down by a third in rural places.
(This could mean) were going to have larger differences down the road with more people smoking in rural areas than urban areas, and its going to create a new public health problem that we havent really had before, Noel Brewer of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, who was not involved in the study, told Reuters Health by phone.
Its not clear from the study why more rural teens smoke.
But earlier research has shown that rural youths have easier access to tobacco products, start smoking at younger ages and more often have family members who smoke at home.
We cant expect that the things we are doing in urban places (will) translate and work in rural communities, lead study author Erika Ziller of the University of Southern Maine in Portland told Reuters Health by phone.
Efforts to reduce smoking need to pay attention to the rural places as well and really understand how these policies or programs may work or not work as well in rural places, she added.
Prevention efforts such as tobacco-free schools and workplaces, which have been implemented in many urban areas, are less common in rural places, Ziller and colleagues note in the American Journal of Public Health.
Rural attitudes on tobacco consumption may also affect prevention efforts, according to the study.
For instance, the authors say, smoking among rural youth is often accepted and supported by adults, some of whom consider the habit a marker of social success.
From 2007 to 2014, cigarette smoking by U.S. adults also declined more rapidly in urban areas, possibly due to greater success of tobacco prevention and cessation programs in those regions, the researchers wrote.
This suggests that rural areas may require tailored anti-smoking interventions that reflect rural norms, the researchers say.
They cite, for example, the Down and Dirty anti-smoking campaigns in Virginia and Vermont that are targeted to teens who love the outdoors.
Ziller noted that resources and public health infrastructure in rural areas are modest compared to urban areas, making it harder to implement evidence-based prevention programs.
One limitation of the study is that it does not account for vaping by teens.
The study may have to be repeated, said Ziller, noting the surge in teenage use of e-cigarettes.
Ziller and Brewer believe policy changes, such as boosting prices of tobacco products by increasing taxes, could be the most effective way to lower smoking rates.
Restricting sale of cigarettes at rural outlets could also help, said Brewer, adding that it is easier to find stores that sell cigarettes in rural areas than in urban areas.
Many of the most effective interventions have to do with changing the environment people are in, as opposed to trying to convince them that smoking is bad, said Brewer.
SOURCE: bit.ly/2TYIMmt American Journal of Public Health, online March 21, 2019.
(Reuters) - The U.S. Food and Drug Administration said on Thursday women taking Sprout Pharmaceuticals Incs female libido pill, Addyi, need not completely avoid alcohol.
The FDA ordered Sprout to make changes to the drugs label to reflect that patients should stop drinking two hours before taking Addyi at bedtime or to skip the dose that evening.
Approved by the FDA in August 2015, Addyi is meant to be taken daily.
The drug carries a boxed warning, FDAs strictest, about potentially dangerous low blood pressure and fainting, especially when taken with alcohol.
Patients taking the drug were previously told to completely avoid alcohol.
The changes recommended by the FDA were based on post-marketing studies by the company, which are required in some cases after approval of the drug.
Sprout was bought by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, now known as Bausch Health Cos Inc in 2015, and then sold back to its former owners after two years.
Pregnant women are more likely to have complications during labor and cesarean deliveries than during vaginal births, and a new study offers fresh evidence that older mothers are most at risk.
FILE PHOTO: A pregnant woman, in the last trimester of her pregnancy, poses in this illustration photo in Sete, South France, March 26, 2016.
REUTERS/Regis Duvignau Rates of cesarean deliveries, or C-sections, have risen in the developed world to more than 20 percent of births, even though the World Health Organization recommends this surgery only for the roughly 10 to 15 percent of cases when the health of the mother or baby is in danger.
While C-sections can be life-saving, the procedures carry risks like infection, excessive bleeding, damage to reproductive organs and blood clots.
For the current study, researchers wanted to get a clearer picture of how often complications might result from the surgery versus from underlying medical problems that might have caused mothers to get these operations.
To do this, they examined data on 1,444 women who experienced severe complications after delivery that were unrelated to pre-existing health problems.
They also looked at a comparison group of 3,464 women who didnt have complications.
Women who had C-sections were 80 percent more likely to have complications than those who delivered vaginally, researchers report in the journal CMAJ.
And women over age 35 who had C-sections were almost three times more likely to have severe complications.
Overall, delivery is safe, senior study author Dr. Catherine Deneux-Tharaux of INSERM in Paris said by email.
However, in a minority of cases, severe complications can occur in the mother during or soon after the delivery.
This happens in about 1.5 percent of deliveries and the main cause is major hemorrhage.
As women age, the uterine muscle loses its ability to contract efficiently, and this can contribute to heavy bleeding after C-sections among older women, Deneux-Tharaux said.
The physiological stop in bleeding after birth involves a contraction of the uterus; that might be reduced in older women, Deneux-Tharaux said.
About 85 percent of the complications involved bleeding after delivery.
Roughly 36 percent of the women who had severe complications delivered by C-section, compared with 18 percent of the mothers who didnt have complications.
Women of all ages had an increased risk of complications with C-sections that were performed after mothers went into labor, a decision that is often made because of medical issues that arise for women or for their babies.
Mothers under 25 years old who had C-sections done after they started labor were 60 percent more likely to have complications than their counterparts who had a vaginal delivery.
Pregnant women 35 or older who had C-sections after they went into labor were four times more likely to have complications than mothers over 35 who had vaginal births.
For C-sections scheduled before women went into labor, however, only the oldest women in the study had an increased risk of complications.
Mothers 35 and older who had C-sections without first going into labor were five times more likely to have severe complications than mothers who had vaginal births.
The study wasnt a controlled experiment designed to prove whether or how C-sections might cause complications or to determine how the timing of these surgeries relative to the start of labor might impact the risk.
The researchers also acknowledge that they could not account for every circumstance when a pre-existing problem or complication might have been the reason a C-section was performed.
Even so, the results should give women another reason to be cautious about scheduling a C-section unless theyre certain its necessary, said Laura Schummers, a researcher at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver who wasnt involved in the study.
The risks of cesarean delivery accumulate over a womans lifetime, with a first cesarean increasing risks in subsequent pregnancies, increasing likelihood of a second C-section, and increasing complications in that second cesarean, Schummers said by email.
As more women delay childbearing to age 35 or beyond, this study underscores the importance of judicious C-section decision-making, particularly for women in this age group who may go on to have additional pregnancies.
SOURCE: bit.ly/2X3QT37 CMAJ, online April 1, 2019.
CHICAGO/HANOI (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue on Thursday criticized Vietnams move to ban imports of glyphosate-based herbicides, saying the decision would have devastating impacts on global agricultural production.
FILE PHOTO: Monsanto's Roundup weedkiller atomizers are displayed for sale at a garden shop near Brussels, Belgium November 27, 2017.
REUTERS/Yves Herman Vietnams government said in a statement that the toxic level of herbicides containing glyphosate had long been of concern, in the latest display of global worries over the products impact on human health.
State media reports said the ban would take effect in June.
Glyphosate, the chemical contained in Bayer AGs best-selling weed killer Roundup, is the target of thousands of lawsuits in the United States alleging exposure to it causes cancer.
Roundup, which Bayer acquired with its $63 billion purchase of Monsanto last year, was the first to contain glyphosate, the worlds most widely used weed killer.
But it is no longer patent-protected and many other versions are available.
Bayer said Vietnams ban will not improve food security or safety in the country and that the company was not aware of any new scientific assessment undertaken by Vietnams government on which the decision is based.
The overwhelming weight of over four decades of extensive science and the conclusions of regulators worldwide ... support the safety of glyphosate-based herbicide products, Bayer said in a statement.
Perdue said the U.S. government had shared scientific studies with Vietnam concluding that glyphosate is unlikely to pose a carcinogenic hazard to humans.
As Ive often said, if were going to feed 10 billion people by 2050, farmers worldwide need all the tools and technologies at our disposal, Perdue said.
In addition to the immediate effect of slowing the development of Vietnamese agricultural production, theres the very real risk that Vietnams farmers will turn to unregulated, illegal chemical products in place of glyphosate, Perdue said.
While regulators in Europe and elsewhere agree with the U.S. assessment, the World Health Organizations cancer arm in 2015 classified glyphosate as probably carcinogenic to humans.
Hoang Trung, head of the Plant Protection Department under Vietnams Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, said in a statement posted on the departments website that long-term exposure to herbicides and pesticides affects the environment and is severely unhealthy for those exposed.
The decision to remove herbicides containing glyphosate from the list of plant protection chemicals permitted for use in Vietnam is in accordance with the current law, international regulations and in line with Vietnams socio-economic conditions, Trung said in the statement.
Sri Lanka prohibited glyphosate use in 2015 but reversed its decision for tea and rubber last year after farmers said the ban hurt businesses, according to Bayer.
(Reuters Health) - - After a heart attack, frail older adults may live longer by taking several medications typically prescribed to prevent future heart problems, but the drugs might also contribute to increased frailty, a U.S. study suggests.
Within 90 days of a heart attack, elderly nursing home residents who took three or more medications were less likely to die than those who took just one.
But in some circumstances, functional decline was more common with more medications, the study found.
Secondary prevention medications are recommended for all adults, even those who are frail and older, said lead study author Andrew Zullo of the Brown University School of Public Health in Providence, Rhode Island.
Despite recommendations, however, little data is available about the effectiveness and safety of medications for the frailest and oldest adults, he said, particularly with regard to physical functioning.
Since the average age at first heart attack is 65 for men and 72 for women, seniors represent a large portion of patients who need secondary prevention medicines.
Many frail older adults value maintaining independence and quality of life more than simply living longer, he told Reuters Health by email.
We should ensure that treatment helps older adults to achieve their care goals.
Zullo and colleagues analyzed Medicare claims data between 2007-2010 for more than 4,700 nursing home residents over age 65.
Medications started after a heart attack included blood thinners known as antiplatelet medications, anticholesterol drugs in the statin class, blood pressure drugs in the beta-blocker class and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitor drugs, which are used for several conditions.
The researchers compared people who were taking one drug, two drugs, or three or more drugs to see how they fared in the first 90 days after the heart attack in terms of death, rehospitalization and functional decline - measured by bed mobility, dressing, eating, speaking, toilet use and personal hygiene.
Overall, there were more than 500 deaths, 1,200 rehospitalizations and 800 instances of functional decline.
The group was about two-thirds female, and half were age 84 or older, according to the report in Circulation: Cardiovascular Quality and Outcomes.
Patients who took three or more medications were 26 percent less likely than those taking just one to die during the 90 days after their heart attack, researchers found.
There was no difference in rehospitalization rates, and no differences in outcomes by age, sex, race or ethnicity.
Researchers also found no differences based on a patients cognition or functional status, with about half of the group having moderate or severe cognitive impairment, and three quarters requiring help with their daily living activities.
Using more secondary prevention medications was associated, however, with a 30 percent relative increase in functional decline in some analyses that excluded antiplatelet drugs.
But when antiplatelets were included, more medication use didnt make much of a difference.
This disagreement means that the functional outcome results must be interpreted with extra caution, Zullo said.
The study team also notes that the results have several limitations.
Its possible, for instance, that people with more severe heart attacks received more medication, or that those who were more frail or had a worse prognosis received fewer drugs.
The researchers also had no information about medication dosages.
Future studies should investigate the effects of specific combinations of medications, as well as doses and what happens when over-the-counter medicines are added to the mix.
Researchers should also follow-up with these patients after a year to understand long-term outcomes, Zullo said.
Older frail adults are at greater risk of experiencing medication-related harms, said Susan Bowles of Dalhousie University and the Nova Scotia Health Authority in Halifax, Canada, who wrote a commentary accompanying the study.
Decisions about starting and stopping medications require consideration of potential benefits and risks for patients, including their goals of care, she writes.
Clinicians and patients are then presented with the quandary of what is the actual benefit of these treatments and if the potential for benefit exceeds the potential risk of harm, Bowles told Reuters Health by email.
A better understanding of this would assist clinicians and patients in decision making.
SOURCE: bit.ly/2IcbBur and bit.ly/2G7ARym Circulation: Cardiovascular Quality and Outcomes, online April 9, 2019.
French cereal farmer Paul Francois, head of the Phyto-Victims association attends a news conference after the verdict in his appeals trial against U.S. Monsanto firm, in Paris, France, April 11, 2019.
REUTERS/Charles Platiau PARIS (Reuters) - German chemical group Bayer said it was considering its legal options, including an appeal, after a French court ruled in favor of a farmer who blamed a weedkiller of Bayers Monsanto unit for health problems.
Thursdays ruling by an appeals court in Lyon in southeast France was the latest stage in a decade-long legal tussle between Monsanto and farmer Paul Francois, who says he fell ill after inhaling weedkiller Lasso in 2004.
Bayer said in a statement that its options included filing an appeal with Frances highest court.
SEOUL (Reuters) - South Koreas Constitutional Court on Thursday overturned a ban on abortion that has stood for more than 65 years, saying in a landmark ruling that current law unconstitutionally curbs womens rights.
In a statement, it said the ban, as well as a law making doctors liable to criminal charges for abortions done with the womans consent, were both unconstitutional.
The law criminalizing a woman who undergoes abortion of her own will goes beyond the minimum needed to achieve the legislative purpose and limits the right of self-determination of the woman, it said in its ruling.
Seven of the nine justices ruled the law unconstitutional, and two dissented.
It had survived a challenge in 2012 when the court split evenly, four to four, as one seat was vacant then.
I believe this ruling frees women from shackles, said Kim Su-jung, a lawyer representing the plaintiff, a doctor charged with conducting 69 illegal abortions.
The ruling reflects a trend towards decriminalizing abortion, as cases of criminal punishment have fallen in recent years.
Just eight new cases of illegal abortion were prosecuted in 2017, down from 24 in 2016, judicial data show.
Of 14 cases decided in lower courts in 2017, 10 postponed a ruling on condition that no crime be committed for a fixed time.
A survey by polling firm Realmeter last week showed more than 58 percent of South Korean respondents favor scrapping the ban, but a little over 30 percent wanted it retained.
Dueling demonstrations outside the courthouse highlighted persistent divisions in opinion.
How could you kill a baby thats growing inside you?
Abortion is a murder, said Kim Yeong-ju, a 47-year-old mother of two who demonstrated in favor of the ban.
But the ruling helps ensure pregnancy is a personal choice, said Lee Ga-hyun, who joined a protest against the law after she saw a friend risk her life using illegal medication for an abortion.
I welcome todays ruling, which made it possible for women like me and my friend to live their lives freely, added Lee, 27.
Pro-abortion law protesters take part in a rally to support the abortion law in front of the constitutional court in Seoul, South Korea, April 11, 2019.
REUTERS/Kim Hong-Ji LONGTIME BAN The abortion ban dates from 1953, and has not changed materially since South Korea first adopted its criminal law after the 1950-1953 Korean War.
Abortion numbers have been dropping, with 49,764 estimated for women between 15 and 44 in 2017, down from 342,433 in 2005 and 168,738 in 2010, as birth control measures spread and the population of women in that age range falls, says the Korea Institute for Health and Social Affairs.
A 2017 petition urging the presidential Blue House to scrap the law against abortion and allow abortion medication drew more than 230,000 signatures.
At the time, a senior government official said existing law was problematic because it only held women accountable for abortion.
President Moon Jae-in, a liberal, has not stated clearly if he supports the law, but has called for more discussions to build consensus.
The law prescribes jail for up to a year or fines of up to 2 million won ($1,756) for women who undergo abortion.
It also sets terms of up to two years in jail and seven-year license suspensions for medical professionals, including doctors, who provide abortions at the womans request.
Exemptions now allow abortions within 24 weeks of pregnancy for medical reasons, such as a hereditary disease or grave danger to the mother, or following rape.
In all those cases, the law requires the spouses permission.
If the case does not fall under an exemption, the law forces the pregnant woman to maintain the pregnancy completely and uniformly, without exception, the court said.
But the law will stay on the books until the end of 2020, it added, to allow time for its revision.
Slideshow (12 Images) In a statement, the government said it would respect the decision and take steps to comply.
($1=1,138.9000 won)
(Reuters) - North Dakota Republican Governor Doug Burgum signed legislation on Wednesday making it a crime for doctors to perform a second-trimester abortion using instruments like forceps and clamps to remove the fetus from the womb.
FILE PHOTO:Governor Doug Burgum (R-ND) speaks to delegates at the Republican State Convention in Grand Forks, North Dakota, U.S. April 7, 2018.
REUTERS/Dan Koeck The move came the same day that Ohios Republican-controlled legislature passed one of the nations most restrictive abortion bans - outlawing the procedure if a doctor can detect a heartbeat.
The bill now goes to Republican Governor Mike DeWine, who is expected to sign it.
Georgias Republican-controlled legislature in March also passed a ban on abortions if a fetal heartbeat is detected, which can often occur before a woman even realizes she is pregnant.
Activists on both sides of the issue say such laws, which are commonly blocked by court injunctions, are aimed at getting a case sent to the U.S. Supreme Court, where conservatives hold a 5-4 majority, to challenge Roe v. Wade, the landmark 1973 decision that established a constitutional right to abortion.
The North Dakota bill, which Burgums spokesman, Mike Nowatzki, confirmed in an email that the governor signed, followed similar laws in Mississippi and West Virginia.
Known as HB 1546, it outlaws the second-trimester abortion practice known in medical terms as dilation and evacuation, but which the legislation refers to as human dismemberment.
Under the North Dakota legislation, doctors performing the procedure would be charged with a felony but the woman having the abortion would not face charges.
Similar legislation exists in Alabama, Arkansas, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Ohio, Oklahoma and Texas, but is on hold because of litigation, according to the Guttmacher Institute, a reproductive rights group.
Abortion-rights groups challenging such bans argue they are unconstitutional as they obstruct private medical rights.
North Dakota has one abortion provider, the Red River Womens Clinic in Fargo.
Clinic Director Tammi Kromenaker did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
She previously said her clinic would wait for a decision in a case involving similar legislation in Arkansas before deciding on a possible legal challenge to HB 1546.
Peter Maurer, President of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), talks to the media during a news conference in Caracas, Venezuela, April 10, 2019.
REUTERS/Manaure Quintero GENEVA (Reuters) - The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said on Thursday it has reached agreement with the Venezuelan government of Nicolas Maduro to expand aid operations, supporting hospitals and health centers in providing vital medical care.
In a statement, the independent aid agency said after a five-day visit by ICRC President Peter Maurer: Twenty-eight hospitals and eight primary health centers in Venezuela will benefit from training, water and sanitation and medical materials supplied by the ICRC.
I am satisfied with the willingness of the authorities to work with us to address the humanitarian needs we have identified in a consensual way, Maurer said.
Maduro said on state television on Wednesday that the Andean country had reached an agreement with the ICRC to work with the U.N. to bring in aid.
Werner Baumann, CEO of Bayer AG speaks during the annual results news conference of the German drugmaker in Leverkusen, Germany February 27, 2019.
REUTERS/Wolfgang Rattay COLOGNE, Germany (Reuters) - Bayers chief executive on Thursday acknowledged the German maker of pharmaceuticals and crop chemicals was facing massive challenges from a wave of lawsuits over an alleged carcinogenic effect of its Roundup weedkiller.
We have lost two cases in lower courts.
That is why the company is massively affected.
You see it in our share price, CEO Werner Baumann said in a panel discussion at an academic business event in Cologne.
You see it selectively, mainly here in Germany and in France - less so in the USA - in our reputational scores, he added.
Bayer has seen about 30 billion euros ($34 billion) wiped off its market value since August, when a U.S. jury found Bayer liable because Monsanto, acquired by Bayer for $63 billion last year, had not warned of weedkiller Roundups alleged cancer risks.
It suffered a similar courtroom defeat last month and more than 10,000 cases are pending.
Theres lots of politicking, campaigning and propaganda that goes entirely against the current regulatory status of our products.
That has prompted U.S. lawyers to sue for damages - a big industry in the USA - following an outlier assessment of the potential risk by a subordinate organization, Baumann added.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the European Chemicals Agency and other regulators across the globe have found that glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup, is not likely carcinogenic to humans.
However, the World Health Organizations cancer arm in 2015 reached a different conclusion, classifying glyphosate as probably carcinogenic to humans.
Bayer is legally challenging the verdicts and has stressed that regulators across the globe have found the product to be safe.
(This April 10 story refiles to fix scrambled syntax in paragraph five) FILE PHOTO: Pharmacist Jim Pearce fills a Suboxone prescription at Boston Healthcare for the Homeless Program in Boston, Massachusetts January 14, 2013.
REUTERS/Brian Snyder By Justin George Varghese and Martinne Geller (Reuters) - British drugmaker Indivior Plc lost nearly three-quarters of its share value on Wednesday and former parent Reckitt Benckiser also fell following U.S. criminal charges accusing Indivior of illegally increasing prescriptions for its opioid addiction treatment Suboxone.
In an indictment in federal court in Abingdon, Virginia, a grand jury said Indivior made billions of dollars by deceiving doctors and healthcare benefit programs into believing its Suboxone Film version was safer and less susceptible to abuse than similar drugs.
The indictment charged Indivior and its subsidiary Indivior Inc with conspiracy, health care fraud, mail fraud and wire fraud.
If the company is convicted, the U.S. government would seek forfeiture of at least $3 billion from Indivior, the indictment said.
The company has set aside a provision of $438 million related to the issue.
Indivior developed the film version of the treatment as a period of marketing exclusivity granted by the U.S. Federal Drug Administration (FDA) for the tablet form of the drug - itself a kind of opioid - was coming to an end, opening it up to generic competition.
Indivior had prospered as U.S. officials stepped up efforts to combat an opioid epidemic that President Donald Trump has declared a public health emergency.
U.S. sales account for 80 percent of last years $1 billion in revenue.
Shares, however, had already been hurt by expectations of a slump in Suboxone sales with the arrival of new generic competition this year.
Indivior has struggled to convince analysts and financial investors that it has an adequate replacement.
Suboxone film is used by people recovering from opioid dependency.
Indivior used a telephone program to connect patients to doctors that the company knew were prescribing Suboxone and/or other opioids in a careless and clinically unwarranted manner, the indictment said.
Slough, England-based Indivior said that an adverse verdict may have a material adverse effect on the company and its financial position and outlook.
A court hearing is scheduled for May 6 and the company plans to plead not guilty to the charges, a spokesman said.
FALSE STATEMENTS Indivior shares crashed to an all-time low and wiped out over 550 million pounds ($720 million) in market value.
They closed down 71.6 percent at 30.05 pence.
Close to 100 million shares changed hands, roughly 40 times the 30-day daily average volume.
Reckitt Benckiser was not charged, but the indictment said the illegal behavior began before it spun off Indivior in 2014.
It refers to Indiviors owner until then as Company A. Reckitt shares slumped 6.5 percent to the bottom of Londons blue chip FTSE 100 index, erasing many of the gains made in 2019 after three tough years.
The indictment said that executives of Company A made or approved false statements that the film version of Suboxone was safer to have around children than the discontinued tablet, even though they knew the primary reason for the discontinuance was to delay FDA approval of generic Suboxone.
This indictment is not against RB Group Plc or any other group company and we currently have no additional or new information in respect of this matter, apart from what has been publicly issued by the Department of Justice and Indivior Plc, Reckitt, owner of Durex condoms and Lysol cleaners, said in a statement on Wednesday.
It referred investors back to a previous statement that it was recognizing a provision of $400 million relating to the issue but that its final cost could be substantially higher.
The provision is in case Reckitt should itself be indicted, as the company has indemnification against liabilities arising from charges against Indivior, a spokeswoman said.
(Graphic: Indivior loses over 3 billion in value since FDA first approves generic - tmsnrt.rs/2D1tfwP) Reckitt was just starting to regain investor confidence after a series of one-off problems including a safety scandal in South Korea, a failed product launch, a cyber attack and a manufacturing glitch.
Its chief executive Rakesh Kapoor, who oversaw several acquisitions and divestitures with the aim of turning Reckitt into a global consumer healthcare company, will retire this year, even though a major undertaking - splitting Reckitt into two business units - is unfinished.
Kapoor took the reins at Reckitt in September 2011.
Many of the allegations in the indictment relate to activities before this period, when Reckitts CEO was Bart Becht, who took Benckiser public in 1997 and merged it with Reckitt & Coleman two years later.
Reuters could not immediately reach Becht for comment on Wednesday.
The potential penalty against Indivior is triple the annual revenue it made last year, or slightly more than the total revenue the company made from Suboxone film from 2010 to 2014.
Indivior had net cash of $681 million at the end of the year.
Jefferies analysts said in a note: The headline potential penalties are severe but a settlement is also still possible.
Last year, Indivior said it was in advanced discussions with the U.S. Department of Justice about a possible resolution but none has emerged.
Indivior has spent the last two years fighting multiple legal battles and patent disputes in the United States with companies including Dr.Reddys, Teva and Mylan to block them from launching generic versions of Suboxone film.
(Graphic: Reckitt erases most of 2019 gains after three tough years - tmsnrt.rs/2D8Hyj1) RECKITT FEARS Reckitts spin-off of Indivior in 2014 and the 2017 sale of Reckitts food unit, let Reckitt focus on expanding its consumer health business, which targets ageing populations and those interested in health and wellness in the West and rising incomes in developing markets.
In addition to concern about Reckitts liability, investors on Wednesday worried about a possible spillover effect on Reckitts infant formula business.
The company had previously flagged implications including potential criminal indictment of the group or employees, with reputational impact, distraction and potential debarment which could theoretically extend to its infant formula business.
The business, which sells Enfamil formula, derives a portion of its sales from government contracts in the United States supplying a program to support low-income parents.
However, Reckitt said on Wednesday any risk to the infant formula business was theoretical and seen as highly unlikely and only a remote possibility.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S.
Senator Bernie Sanders unveiled the latest version of his ambitious Medicare-for-All plan on Wednesday, moving the healthcare debate among Democratic presidential contenders to center stage in the 2020 race.
Democratic U.S. presidential candidate U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) speaks at a news conference to introduce the "Medicare for All Act of 2019" on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., April 10, 2019.
REUTERS/Aaron P. Bernstein The Sanders plan, similar to his 2017 proposal that languished in the Senate, would largely eliminate private insurance and shift all Americans into a Medicare-based government-run healthcare plan that Republicans have criticized as too costly and radical.
The bill has 14 Democratic co-sponsors in the Senate, including four of his presidential rivals - Kirsten Gillibrand, Cory Booker, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren.
The other White House contender in the Senate, Amy Klobuchar, supports universal healthcare and expanding Medicare but has not committed to plans that would eliminate private insurance.
A similar measure in the House of Representatives has more than 100 co-sponsors.
The current debate over Medicare for All really has nothing to do with healthcare; it has everything to do with greed and profiteering, Sanders said at a Capitol Hill event to roll out the proposal, where he was joined by Gillibrand.
This is a struggle for the heart and soul of who we are as the American people, he said.
Sanders, an independent senator from Vermont who mounted an unsuccessful 2016 White House run, has turned the proposal, once dismissed as too fringe, into a centerpiece of the Democratic Partys agenda heading into the 2020 White House race.
At least 10 other Democrats vying for the right to challenge Republican President Donald Trump in 2020 have backed some similar form of government-run healthcare, and every Democrat supports taking at least smaller steps toward achieving universal coverage.
Other prominent Democrats, including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, have urged the party to focus on protecting and strengthening the Affordable Care Act, popularly known as Obamacare, which Trump and Republicans have vowed to dismantle.
The Sanders proposal, which has little chance of passage in the Republican-run Senate, expands on his old bill to include coverage of home and community-based long-term care services for people with disabilities.
Sanders does not put a price tag on the proposal, but would raise revenues to help pay for it through a combination of taxes on employers, individuals, businesses and the wealthy.
He suggests that healthcare spending and administrative costs would decrease and costs for consumers would be reduced.
The liberal Urban Institute estimated the earlier Sanders plan would cost $32 trillion over a decade, with the additional taxes raising about $15 trillion.
Republicans have criticized the bill as a socialist pipe dream that would be too costly and weaken the U.S. healthcare system.
They have promised to make it a key election issue in 2020.
Its the same tired, debunked logic that Washington, D.C., knows best and the American people cant be trusted to decide whats best for themselves and their families, Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell said.
YEHUD, Israel (Reuters) - Israeli spacecraft Beresheet crashed onto the moon on Thursday after a series of technical failures during its final descent, shattering hopes of a historic controlled landing on the lunar surface.
The unmanned robotic lander suffered periodic engine and communications failures during the landing sequence, which lasted around 21 minutes, the support team said.
Beresheet, whose name is Hebrew for the biblical phrase In the beginning, had traveled through space for seven weeks in a series of expanding orbits around Earth before crossing into the moons gravity last week.
The final maneuver on Wednesday brought it into a tight elliptical orbit around the moon, around 15 km (9 miles) from the surface at its closest.
From there it was a short, nail-biting and ultimately disappointing conclusion.
It seems that a failure in our inertial measurements unit caused a chain of events in the spacecraft avionics which cut off the engines and caused us to lose the mission, said Opher Doron, general manager of the space division at Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI).
So far, only three nations have succeeded in carrying out a soft, or controlled, landing on the lunar surface: the United States, the Soviet Union and China.
Beresheet would have been the first craft to land on the moon that was not the product of a government program.
It was built by state-owned IAI and Israeli non-profit space venture SpaceIL with $100 million funded almost entirely by private donors.
Still, the spacecraft achieved some milestones.
Slideshow (6 Images) It is by far the smallest, the cheapest spacecraft ever to get to the moon, said Doron.
Its been an amazing journey, I hope we get a chance for another one.
Shaped like a round table with four carbon-fiber legs, Beresheet stood about 1.5 meters (4.9 feet) tall.
It blasted off from Floridas Cape Canaveral on Feb. 21 on a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket and entered Earths orbit about 34 minutes after launch.
Its circuitous flight path was around 4 million miles (6.5 million km).
A direct route from the Earth to the moon covers roughly 240,000 miles (386,000 km).
(Reuters) - The most powerful operational rocket in the world, SpaceXs Falcon Heavy, launched its first commercial mission on Thursday from Florida in a key demonstration for billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musks space company in the race to grasp lucrative military launch contracts.
The 23-story-tall Heavy, which previously launched Musks cherry red Tesla roadster to space in a 2018 debut test flight, blasted off from Floridas Kennedy Space Center carrying its first customer payload.
T plus 33 seconds into flight, under the power of 5.1 million pounds of thrust, Falcon Heavy is headed to space, SpaceX launch commentator John Insprucker said on a livestream.
Roughly three minutes after clearing the pad, Heavys two side boosters separated from the core rocket for a synchronized landing at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, sparking boisterous cheers from SpaceX engineers in the companys Hawthorne, California headquarters.
The middle booster, after pushing the payload into space, returned nearly 10 minutes later for a successful landing on SpaceXs seafaring drone ship 400 miles (645 km) off the Florida coast.
In the 2018 test mission, Heavys core booster missed the vessel and crashed into the Atlantic Ocean.
The Falcons have landed Musk wrote on Twitter, inaugurating the first successful recovery of all three rocket boosters, which will be refurbished and re-fly in another Falcon Heavy mission this summer to carry a swarm of military and science satellites for the Air Force.
Liftoff with Heavys new military-certified Falcon 9 engines was crucial in the race with Boeing-Lockheed venture United Launch Alliance and Jeff Bezos Blue Origin as Musks SpaceX, working to flight-prove its rocket fleet one mission at a time, aims to clinch a third of all U.S. National Security Space missions - coveted military contracts worth billions.
The U.S. Air Force tapped SpaceX in 2018 to launch for $130 million a classified military satellite and in February added three more missions in a $297 million contract.
Slideshow (8 Images) SpaceX and Boeing Co are vying to send humans to space from U.S. soil for the first time in nearly a decade under NASAs Commercial Crew Program.
SpaceXs Crew Dragon capsule, atop a Falcon 9 rocket, cleared its first unmanned test flight in March ahead of its crewed mission planned for July, while the first unmanned test for Boeings Starliner capsule is slated for August on ULAs Atlas 5 rocket.
Falcon Heavy carried a communications satellite for Saudi-based telecom firm Arabsat, which will beam internet and television services over Africa, Europe and the Middle East.
Privately owned SpaceX, also known as Space Exploration Technologies Corp, was founded in 2002 by Musk, who is also a co-founder of electric car maker Tesla Inc.
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (Reuters) - An American astronaut experienced multiple biological changes in space but returned to normal - with some exceptions - after coming back to Earth, according to a study involving twin brothers that shed light on how space flight affects the human body.
FILE PHOTO: NASA astronaut Scott Kelly (R), member of the 43 International Space Station crew, and his twin brother Mark pose after a news conference at Baikonur cosmodrome March 26, 2015.
REUTERS/Maxim Zmeyev In research published on Thursday, scientists compared Scott Kelly to identical twin Mark Kelly after Scott spent 340 days in orbit on the International Space Station and Mark remained Earth-bound.
Both are now retired as NASA astronauts, and Mark is running for a U.S. Senate seat in Arizona.
Scott Kelly during the flight experienced thickening of the carotid artery and retina, weight loss, shifts in gut microbes, reductions in cognitive abilities, DNA damage, changes in gene expression, and a lengthening of the ends of chromosomes called telomeres, scientists said.
After returning home, the telomere elongation was replaced by accelerated shortening and loss, a potentially negative consequence for cellular health, they said.
The return was much worse than the adaptation of getting up there, especially for the year flight, Kelly told reporters on Thursday.
I felt like I had the flu after the first few days.
I was tired for really long time.
The study will help scientists better understand the changes astronauts undergo during long-term space travel, crucial knowledge as NASA contemplates human expeditions to the Moon and Mars.
Scientists noted changes in the expression of Scott Kellys genes while in space, with most - but not all - returning to normal after six months back on Earth.
A small percentage related to the immune system and DNA repair failed to return to normal, however, indicating potential lasting damage at the genetic level.
Researchers identified five possible causes for the genetic changes, including space radiation and the weightlessness of a zero-gravity environment.
The space station where Scott Kelly lived orbits below the Van Allen radiation belt, a shell of energetic charged particles built up outside Earths protective magnetic field.
Radiation is much lower than what we expect it to be going to Mars, said Steven Platts, deputy chief scientist at NASAs Human Research Program.
Scott Kellys immune system worked fine in space and a flu vaccine administered in orbit performed just as it would on Earth, the study found.
NASA called a strong immune system critical for lengthy space missions to safeguard astronauts from disease-causing microbes in the spacecraft environment.
Dr. Andrew Feinberg of Johns Hopkins University, who helped lead the study published in the journal Science, noted that publication of the findings coincides with the 58th anniversary of the first human space flight, by Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin.
Feinberg called the study the dawn of human genomics in space.
Researchers are planning another years-long study to build on Thursdays results.
Put me in coach, Im ready to go, Scott Kelly joked.
An image taken by Israel spacecraft, Beresheet, upon its landing on the moon, obtained by Reuters from Space IL on April 11, 2019.
Courtesy Space IL/Handout via REUTERS YEHUD, Israel (Reuters) - The Israeli spacecraft Beresheet reached the moon on Thursday but its planned controlled, or soft, landing was unsuccessful, the support team said.
The spacecraft had a number of technical problems during its final descent to the lunar surface, the team said.
(Reuters) - Virgin Galactics first test passenger received her commercial astronaut wings from the U.S. aviation regulator on Tuesday after flying on the companys rocket plane to evaluate the customer experience in February.
Virgin Galactics chief astronaut instructor, Beth Moses, who is a former NASA engineer, became the first woman to fly to space on a commercial vehicle when she joined pilots David Mackay and Mike Masucci on SpaceShipTwo VSS Unity.
The wings were presented to the three-person crew at the 35th Space Symposium in Colorado by the Federal Aviation Administrations associate administrator for commercial space, Wayne Monteith.
Commercial human space flight is now a reality, he said.
The February test flight nudged Richard Bransons space travel company closer to delivering suborbital flights for the more than 600 people who have paid Virgin Galactic about $80 million in deposits.
Branson has said he hopes to be the first passenger on a commercial flight in 2019.
The 90-minute flight, during which passengers will be able to experience a few minutes of weightlessness and see the Earths curvature, costs $250,000 a price that the company said will increase before it falls.
Jeff Bezos Blue Origin and Elon Musks SpaceX are also in the space tourism race.
Blue Origin has launched its New Shepard rocket to space, but its trips have not yet carried humans.
SpaceX last year named Japanese billionaire Yusaku Maezawa as its first passenger on a voyage around the moon, tentatively scheduled for 2023.
Moses, who as a NASA engineer worked on the assembly of the International Space Station, is designing a three-day training program for Virgin Galactics future space tourists.
I gleaned a lot of firsthand information that we can roll into the design and then also into the training, she said on her return to earth in Mojave, California, in February.
Virgin Galactic rocket plane, the WhiteKnightTwo carrier airplane, with SpaceShipTwo passenger craft takes off from Mojave Air and Space Port in Mojave, California, U.S., February 22, 2019.
REUTERS/Gene Blevins The passengers, some of whom have been signed up since 2004, will train in a mock-up cabin at New Mexicos Spaceport America before their flights.
Moses told Reuters she aims for customers to arrive in space not wondering what noise they just heard or being surprised by the G they just felt.
Virgin Galactics Branson will also receive the annual Space Achievement Award at the symposium in recognition of the companys two crewed test flights, the first from U.S. soil since the final Space Shuttle mission in 2011.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Thirteen fossil bones and teeth excavated in a cave in the Philippines represent an enigmatic previously unknown human species, probably small in stature and possessing an unexpected mix of archaic and modern traits, scientists said on Wednesday.
Right upper teeth of an individual of the newly identified species Homo luzonensis, found in Callao Cave on Luzon Island, the Philippines, are seen in this undated handout photo obtained by Reuters April 10, 2019.
Callao Cave Archaeology Project/Handout via REUTERS The discovery of remains of at least three individuals from this species, named Homo luzonensis, in Callao Cave on the northern part of the island of Luzon marked the second time in the 21st century that a bygone member of the human family has been found on southeast Asian islands.
The researchers were unable to extract DNA but did determine that one of the individuals lived 67,000 years ago and the other 50,000 years ago.
In 2003, fossils of another island-dwelling species - Homo floresiensis, dubbed the Hobbit due to its diminutive size - were unearthed in a cave on the Indonesian island of Flores, some 1,800 miles (3,000 km) from the Luzon site.
There is no indication the two species interacted or were closely related.
Homo luzonensis was a contemporary not only of the Hobbit but of our own species, Homo sapiens, which emerged in Africa roughly 300,000 years ago.
The scientists said they could not rule out the possibility that the arrival of our species in the region contributed to the demise of Homo luzonensis.
The Hobbit also disappeared about 50,000 years ago at the same time Homo sapiens was spreading through the region.
The Luzon and Flores discoveries demonstrate that the story of human evolution is more complicated than previously understood, with Asia offering up surprises, potentially with more to come, the researchers said.
HOW BIG WERE THEY?
The researchers were circumspect in describing the physical appearance and lifestyle of Homo luzonensis, known only from a sparse assemblage of hand and foot bones, and teeth from two adults and one juvenile, with no skull fossils.
Based on tooth size in particular, it appears it might have been much smaller than Homo sapiens, but it is unclear whether it was as little as the Hobbit, which was roughly 3-1/2 feet (1 meter) tall.
We have to stay cautious about it, especially because people will immediately have Homo floresiensis in mind as a model for the physical appearance of Homo luzonensis, which was certainly not the case, said paleoanthropologist Florent Dtroit of the Muse de lHomme-Musum National dHistoire Naturelle in Paris.
We can only speculate but it might be only in the range of a pygmy Homo sapiens, added archaeologist Armand Mijares, leader of the Callao Archaeological Project.
The research was published in the journal Nature.
Based on animal bones with butchering marks found at the site, it appears these people ate meat and may have used stone tools, Dtroit said.
The fossils from the seven-chamber cave, situated in the foothills of Luzons northern Sierra Madre mountains, boasted a combination of anatomical features setting it apart from other human species.
Slideshow (3 Images) Some characteristics were similar to Homo sapiens as well as the Hobbit.
Other traits were so archaic that they resembled Australopithecus, an earlier member of the human evolutionary lineage that died out roughly 2 million years ago, as well as the ancient human species Homo habilis and Homo erectus.
For years - and until less than 20 years ago - human evolution in Asia was seen as very simple, with Homo erectus going out of Africa, settling in east and southeast Asia, and then nothing happened until the arrival of Homo sapiens at around 40,000 to 50,000 years ago and its conquest of every region on Earth, Dtroit said.
With the discoveries made on the field - fossils - and in the lab, for instance genetics, we now know that it was a much more complex evolutionary history, with several distinct species contemporaneous with Homo sapiens, interbreeding events, extinctions, et cetera, Dtroit added.
Homo sapiens was definitely not alone on Earth.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Using a global network of telescopes to see the unseeable, an international scientific team on Wednesday announced a milestone in astrophysics - the first-ever photo of a black hole - in an achievement that validated a pillar of science put forward by Albert Einstein more than a century ago.
Black holes are monstrous celestial entities exerting gravitational fields so vicious that no matter or light can escape.
The somewhat fuzzy photo of the black hole at the center of Messier 87, or M87, a massive galaxy residing in the center of the relatively nearby Virgo galaxy cluster, shows a glowing ring of red, yellow and white surrounding a dark center.
The research was conducted by the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT) project, an international collaboration involving about 200 scientists begun in 2012 to try to directly observe the immediate environment of a black hole.
The announcement was made in simultaneous news conferences in Washington, Brussels, Santiago, Shanghai, Taipei and Tokyo.
The image was obtained using data collected in April 2017 from eight radio telescopes in six locations that essentially create a planet-sized observational dish.
The teams observations strongly validated the theory of general relativity proposed in 1915 by Einstein, the famed theoretical physicist, to explain the laws of gravity and their relation to other natural forces.
We have achieved something presumed to be impossible just a generation ago, said astrophysicist Sheperd Doeleman, director of the Event Horizon Telescope at the Center for Astrophysics (CfA), Harvard & Smithsonian.
Black holes, phenomenally dense and coming in various sizes, are extraordinarily difficult to observe by their very nature.
A black holes event horizon is the point of no return beyond which anything - stars, planets, gas, dust and all forms of electromagnetic radiation - gets swallowed into oblivion.
The M87 black hole observed by the scientific team resides about 54 million light-years from Earth and boasts an almost-unimaginable mass of 6.5 billion times that of the sun.
A light year is the distance light travels in a year, 5.9 trillion miles (9.5 trillion km).
This is a huge day in astrophysics, said U.S. National Science Foundation Director France Cordova.
Were seeing the unseeable.
It did bring tears to my eyes, Cordova added.
The first ever photo a black hole, taken using a global network of telescopes, conducted by the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT) project, to gain insight into celestial objects with gravitational fields so strong no matter or light can escape, is shown in this handout photo released April 10, 2019.
Event Horizon Telescope (EHT)/National Science Foundation/Handout via REUTERS The existence of black holes was first predicted in 1916.
Most galaxies are thought to have a supermassive black hole at their center.
RING OF LIGHT The fact that black holes do not allow light to escape makes viewing them difficult.
The scientists looked for a ring of light - super-heated disrupted matter and radiation circling at tremendous speed at the edge of the event horizon - around a region of darkness representing the actual black hole.
This is known as the black holes shadow or silhouette.
The scientists said Einsteins theory correctly predicted that the shape of the shadow would be almost a perfect circle.
With M87, it deviated from perfect circularity by less than 10 percent.
We found literally the proverbial hole in the middle of this galaxy, and to me that is just stunning, said astrophysicist Dimitrios Psaltis of the University of Arizona, the EHT project scientist.
Einsteins theory also was validated by another major astrophysics achievement announced in 2016, the detection of gravitational waves, or ripples in spacetime, arising from two black holes that smashed together.
Science fiction has become science fact, University of Arizona astronomy professor Daniel Marrone said.
The image has this exquisite beauty in its simplicity, said CfA astrophysicist Michael Johnson, the projects imaging coordinator.
It is just a fundamental statement about nature.
Its a really moving demonstration of just what humanity is capable of.
The project has also targeted another black hole - Sagittarius A* - situated at the center of our own Milky Way galaxy.
Scientists expressed optimism about getting a picture of that one, perhaps within a year.
Sagittarius A* possesses 4 million times the mass of our sun and is located 26,000 light-years from Earth.
Streaming away from M87 at nearly the speed of light is a humongous jet of subatomic particles, though that was not captured in the photo.
Slideshow (10 Images) The researchers estimated that the observed shadow of M87 is roughly 2-1/2 times larger than the actual size of the black holes boundary - the event horizon - due to light bending because of the extreme gravitational forces.
They think the event horizon measures just under 25 billion miles (40 billion km) across, about three times the size of Plutos orbit around the sun.
The projects researchers obtained the data using radio telescopes in the U.S. states of Arizona and Hawaii as well as in Mexico, Chile, Spain and Antarctica.
Since then, telescopes in France and Greenland have been added to the global network.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - An international scientific team is expected on Wednesday to unveil a landmark achievement in astrophysics - the first photo of a black hole - in a feat that will put to the test a pillar of science: Albert Einsteins theory of general relativity.
The first ever photo a black hole, taken using a global network of telescopes, conducted by the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT) project, to gain insight into celestial objects with gravitational fields so strong no matter or light can escape, is shown in this handout photo released April 10, 2019.
Event Horizon Telescope (EHT)/National Science Foundation/Handout via REUTERS Black holes are phenomenally dense celestial entities with gravitational fields so powerful no matter or light can escape, making them extraordinarily difficult to observe despite their great mass.
News conferences are set in Washington, Brussels, Santiago, Shanghai, Taipei and Tokyo to disclose a groundbreaking result from the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT) project, begun in 2012 to directly observe the immediate environment of a black hole using a global network of telescopes.
A black holes event horizon is the point of no return beyond which anything - stars, planets, gas, dust and all forms of electromagnetic radiation - gets swallowed into oblivion.
The project targeted two supermassive black holes residing at the center of different galaxies.
The Washington news conference convened by the U.S. National Science Foundation is scheduled for 9 a.m. (1300 GMT) on Wednesday.
Among those due to speak are astrophysicist Sheperd Doeleman, director of the Event Horizon Telescope at the Center for Astrophysics, Harvard & Smithsonian.
The research will test the theory of general relativity put forward in 1915 by Einstein, the famed theoretical physicist, to explain the laws of gravity and their relation to other natural forces.
Einsteins theory allows for a prediction of the size and shape of a black hole.
If the prediction turns out to be off the mark, the theory may need rethinking.
This is separate from another key component of Einsteins broader theory of relativity: his 1905 theory of special relativity, part of the basis of modern physics.
The theory of special relativity explaining the relationship between space and time.
One of the black holes - Sagittarius A* - is situated at the center of our own Milky Way galaxy, possessing 4 million times the mass of our sun and located 26,000 light years from Earth.
A light year is the distance light travels in a year, 5.9 trillion miles (9.5 trillion km).
The second one - M87 - inhabits the center of the neighboring Virgo A galaxy, boasting a mass 3.5 billion times that of the sun and located 54 million light-years away from Earth.
Streaming away from M87 at nearly the speed of light is a humongous jet of subatomic particles.
Black holes, which come in different sizes, are formed when very massive stars collapse at the end of their life cycle.
Supermassive black holes are the largest kind, growing in mass as they devour matter and radiation and perhaps merging with other black holes.
The fact that black holes do not allow light to escape makes viewing them difficult.
The scientists will be looking for a ring of light - disrupted matter and radiation circling at tremendous speed at the edge of the event horizon - around a region of darkness representing the actual black hole.
This is known as the black holes shadow or silhouette.
The scientists said the shape of the shadow would be almost a perfect circle in Einsteins theory of general relativity, and if it turns out that it is not, there is something wrong with the theory.
The projects researchers obtained the first data in April 2017 using telescopes in the U.S. states of Arizona and Hawaii as well as Mexico, Chile, Spain and Antarctica.
Since then, telescopes in France and Greenland have been added to the global network.
The global network of telescopes has essentially created a planet-sized observational dish.
GENEVA (Reuters) - Iran said on Tuesday it would press ahead with the launch of three satellites into orbit this year despite a U.S. move to curb Tehrans ballistic missile program which Washington says has been advanced by the satellite activity.
U.S. President Donald Trump said on Monday he would name Irans elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps a terrorist organization, a move partly intended to curb the Islamic Republics development of ballistic missiles.
The United States fears long-range ballistic technology used to put satellites into orbit could also be used to launch nuclear warheads.
Iranian Telecoms Minister Mohammad Javad Azari-Jahromi told Reuters in Geneva on Tuesday that Tehran would stick to its plans to launch three satellites and denied the U.S. accusation that such activity is a cover for ballistic missile development.
The rockets which have currently been developed in Iran for carrying satellites are not something that are a cover for another kind of rocket activity, Azari-Jahromi said in an interview on the sidelines of a conference in Geneva.
Because if Iran wants to have missile activity its something that it is doing openly.
Its not something that is hidden.
Its part of our right to defense.
An Iranian attempt to launch a satellite in January failed, prompting U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to tweet: The launch yet again shows that Iran is pursuing enhanced missile capabilities that threaten Europe and the Middle East.
Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said in an interview with NBC News in February that Irans bid to launch a second satellite had also failed.
Azari-Jahromi said Irans satellite program is intended for peaceful purposes such as helping manage water resources and protect the environment.
The Islamic Republic has been hit by devastating flooding since mid-March that has killed at least 70 people and inundated some 1,900 communities.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Scientists are expected to unveil on Wednesday the first-ever photograph of a black hole, a breakthrough in astrophysics providing insight into celestial monsters with gravitational fields so intense no matter or light can escape.
FILE PHOTO: A supermassive black hole with millions to billions times the mass of our sun is seen in an undated NASA artist's concept illustration.
REUTERS/NASA/JPL-Caltech/Handout/File Photo The U.S. National Science Foundation has scheduled a news conference in Washington to announce a groundbreaking result from the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT) project, an international partnership formed in 2012 to try to directly observe the immediate environment of a black hole.
Simultaneous news conferences are scheduled in Brussels, Santiago, Shanghai, Taipei and Tokyo.
A black holes event horizon, one of the most violent places in the universe, is the point of no return beyond which anything - stars, planets, gas, dust, all forms of electromagnetic radiation including light - gets sucked in irretrievably.
While scientists involved in the research declined to disclose the findings ahead of the formal announcement, they are clear about their goals.
Its a visionary project to take the first photograph of a black hole.
We are a collaboration of over 200 people internationally, astrophysicist Sheperd Doeleman, director of the Event Horizon Telescope at the Center for Astrophysics, Harvard & Smithsonian, said at a March event in Texas.
The news conference is scheduled for 9 a.m. (1300 GMT) on Wednesday.
The research will put to the test a scientific pillar - physicist Albert Einsteins theory of general relativity, according to University of Arizona astrophysicist Dimitrios Psaltis, project scientist for the Event Horizon Telescope.
That theory, put forward in 1915, was intended to explain the laws of gravity and their relation to other natural forces.
SUPERMASSIVE BLACK HOLES The researchers targeted two supermassive black holes.
The first - called Sagittarius A* - is situated at the center of our own Milky Way galaxy, possessing 4 million times the mass of our sun and located 26,000 light years from Earth.
A light year is the distance light travels in a year, 5.9 trillion miles (9.5 trillion km).
The second - called M87 - resides at the center of the neighboring Virgo A galaxy, boasting a mass 3.5 billion times that of the sun and located 54 million light-years away from Earth.
Streaming away from M87 at nearly the speed of light is a humongous jet of subatomic particles.
Black holes, coming in a variety of sizes, are extraordinarily dense entities formed when very massive stars collapse at the end of their life cycle.
Supermassive black holes are the largest kind, devouring matter and radiation and perhaps merging with other black holes.
Psaltis described a black hole as an extreme warp in spacetime, a term referring to the three dimensions of space and the one dimension of time joined into a single four-dimensional continuum.
Doeleman said the projects researchers obtained the first data in April 2017 from a global network of telescopes.
The telescopes that collected that initial data are located in the U.S. states of Arizona and Hawaii as well as Mexico, Chile, Spain and Antarctica.
Since then, telescopes in France and Greenland have been added to the network.
The scientists also will be trying to detect for the first time the dynamics near the black hole as matter orbits at near light speeds before being swallowed into oblivion.
The fact that black holes do not allow light to escape makes viewing them difficult.
The scientists will be looking for a ring of light - radiation and matter circling at tremendous speed at the edge of the event horizon - around a region of darkness representing the actual black hole.
This is known as the black holes shadow or silhouette.
Einsteins theory, if correct, should allow for an extremely accurate prediction of the size and shape of a black hole.
The shape of the shadow will be almost a perfect circle in Einsteins theory, Psaltis said.
If we find it to be different than what the theory predicts, then we go back to square one and we say, Clearly, something is not exactly right.
(Reuters) - For decades, scientists have been perplexed by the marvelous preservation of bronze weapons associated with Chinas famed Terracotta Warriors, retaining shiny, almost pristine surfaces and sharp blades after being buried for more than two millennia.
FILE PHOTO: Terracotta warriors and horses, which were unearthed during the first excavation from 1978 to 1984, stand inside the No.
1 pit of the Museum of Qin Terracotta Warriors and Horses in Xian, Shaanxi province, in China, January 8, 2018.
REUTERS/Charles Platiau Research by an international team of scientists published on Thursday may solve the mystery while putting to rest an intriguing hypothesis: that ancient Chinese artisans employed an unexpectedly advanced preservation method using the metal chromium.
The fine preservation of weapons including swords, lances and halberds was due to serendipity - factors such as the bronzes high tin content and favorable soil composition, the scientists decided after examining 464 bronze weapons and parts.
Chromium found on the bronze surfaces, they determined, was simply contamination from chromium-rich lacquer applied by the artisans to the terracotta figures and weapons parts.
Chromium played no role in their preservation.
The Terracotta Army consists of thousands of life-sized ceramic warriors and horses alongside bronze chariots and weapons, part of the vast 3rd century BC mausoleum near the city of Xian for Qin Shi Huang, first emperor of a unified China.
Found in 1974, it represents one of the 20th centurys greatest archaeological discoveries.
Scientific analyses almost four decades ago detected chromium on the surface of some of the weapons, spurring the hypothesis that the weapon-makers used a chromium-based treatment to prevent corrosion.
Chromium-conversion coating, a technology discovered in the early 20th century, is used to treat metals to render them more corrosion resistant.
It involves dipping metal in a solution containing chromium salts.
A chromium oxide layer is deposited on the metals surface, providing a barrier against rust.
The lacquer was applied to the Terracotta Army as a primer before they were painted with colors, and we think its quite likely it was also applied to the now-decayed wooden parts such as handles and shafts, said University of Cambridge archaeological scientist Marcos Martinn-Torres, who led the study published in the journal Scientific Reports.
Ancient bronzes often have poor states of preservation, with porous, pitted surfaces showing green or dark colors.
In essence, we show that, yes, the Terracotta Army weapons generally show a very good state of preservation, but there is currently no indication that this is anything other than the result of chance, added Martinn-Torres, who participated in the research while at University College London and in collaboration with the Terracotta Army Museum.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Pentagon said on Thursday that it stood by its assessment that debris from an Indian anti-satellite (ASAT) weapons test would eventually burn up in the atmosphere, even after NASAs administrator warned of the danger the debris posed.
India used an indigenously developed ballistic missile interceptor to destroy one of its own satellites at a height of 300 km (186 miles), in a test aimed at boosting its defenses in space.
NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine said on Monday that more than 400 pieces of orbital debris from the test had been identified, including debris that was traveling above the International Space Station - something he called a terrible, terrible thing.
Bridenstines assessment contrasted sharply with the one offered by Acting U.S. Defense Secretary Patrick Shanahan on March 28, when he played down the threat the debris might pose to satellites in space and said it was his understanding the debris would eventually burn up in the atmosphere.
Asked on Thursday whether the Pentagon stood by Shanahans earlier assessment, spokesman Charlie Summers said: Yes.
In 2007, China destroyed a satellite in a polar orbit, creating the largest orbital debris cloud in history, with more than 3,000 objects, according to the Secure World Foundation.
Since the impact altitude exceeded 800 km (500 miles), many of the resulting scraps stayed in orbit.
Shanahan said last week he believed India had avoided a similar scenario by testing at a lower altitude.
Indias top defense scientist said the debris would burn up in 45 days.
The White House struck a cautious tone on Thursday, saying it was aware of Indian government statements about its efforts to mitigate debris hazards.
We will continue to closely monitor the remaining debris from Indias ASAT test to ensure the safety of assets on-orbit and human spaceflight activities such as the International Space Station, said Garrett Marquis, a National Security Council spokesman.
Marquis said the United States remained committed to working with all nations to mitigate the operational effects of orbital debris.
As part of our strategic partnership, the United States will continue close engagements with India on shared interests in space, he added, listing areas that included safety and security as well as human space exploration.
VIENNA (Reuters) - As carmakers push ahead with self-driving vehicles, an Austrian aerospace company and its Chinese partner showed off their pilot-less flying taxi for the first time in Europe on Thursday.
The drones 16 propellers hummed loudly as it rose above the pitch at Viennas Generali Arena, home to soccer club Austria Wien.
The slim plane, which weighs 340 kg (750 pounds), circled in the air briefly and came down within a few minutes.
The EHang 216, which can seat two passengers, has been tested comprehensively and is essentially ready for mass production, said Derrick Xiong, co-founder of Chinese drone maker EHang.
Joining the race for new autonomous aircraft services that do not require runways, EHang entered a strategic partnership with Austrias FACC, owned by Chinese aerospace group AVIC, last year, aiming to offer short-haul services for passengers, industrial equipment and urgent medical deliveries.
The drone can fly at up to 150 km per hour (90 mph) for almost half an hour, FACC Chief Executive Officer Robert Machtlinger said.
It can travel between 50 and 70 kilometers depending on the payload.
The passenger cabin is small, with leg room that taller passengers might find less-than adequate, an Austrian photographer who took part in a demonstration flight told Reuters.
FACC says it has already received several thousand orders for the 300,000 euro ($336,000) drone, with the highest demand in China.
Competitors working toward offering autonomous flying cars early in the next decade range from aerospace giant Airbus to Uber, and AeroMobil.
Technically... urban mobility, flying without a pilot is possible, its not a dream, its existing, said Machtlinger.
Slideshow (10 Images) What is hindering us to go into larger volumes is regulation, he added.
A future legal framework for autonomous flying vehicles should regulate communication with other planes and helicopters and provide traffic rules, he said.
Austria supports international efforts to quickly establish the necessary regulation, said transport minister Norbert Hofer.
I hope that Austria will be the place where thousands of these drones, of these air taxis will be built and I hope that very soon we will see a lot of these air taxis in the air, Hofer said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Scientists have unearthed fossils in a coastal desert of southern Peru of a four-legged whale that thrived both in the sea and on land about 43 million years ago in a discovery that illuminates a pivotal stage in early cetacean evolution.
The newly discovered early whale Peregocetus, which lived about 43 million years ago, is pictured along the rocky shore of the southeastern Pacific in this undated artistic reconstruction obtained by Reuters on April 3, 2019.
Alberto Gennari/Handout via REUTERS The 13-foot-long (4-meter) mammal, named Peregocetus pacificus, represents a crucial intermediate step before whales became fully adapted to a marine existence, the scientists said on Thursday.
Its four limbs were capable of bearing its weight on land, meaning Peregocetus could return to the rocky coast to rest and perhaps give birth while spending much of its time at sea.
Its feet and hands had small hooves and probably were webbed to aid in swimming.
With long fingers and toes, and relatively slender limbs, moving around on land may not have been easy.
Its elongated snout and robust teeth - large grasping incisors and canines along with flesh-shearing molars - made Peregocetus adept at catching medium-size prey like fish.
We think that it was feeding in the water, and that its underwater locomotion was easier than that on land, said Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences paleontologist Olivier Lambert, who led the research published in the journal Current Biology.
Some vertebrae of the tail region share strong similarities with semi-aquatic mammals like otters, indicating the tail was predominantly used for underwater locomotion, Lambert added.
Whale evolutionary origins were poorly understood until the 1990s when fossils of the earliest whales were found.
Various fossils have shown that whales evolved a bit more than 50 million years ago in Pakistan and India from hoofed, land-dwelling mammals distantly related to hippos and about the size of a medium-sized dog.
It took millions of years for them to spread around the world.
Peregocetus represents the most complete quadrupedal whale skeleton outside India and Pakistan, and the first known from the Pacific region and the Southern Hemisphere.
Its presence in Peru, Lambert said, suggests quadrupedal whales spread from South Asia to North Africa, then crossed the South Atlantic to reach the New World.
Peregocetus shows that the first whales to reach the Americas still retained the ability to move on land.
Over time, cetacean front limbs evolved into flippers.
The hind limbs eventually become mere vestiges.
It was not until about 40 million years ago that the whale lineage evolved into completely marine animals, then split into the two cetacean groups alive today: filter-feeding baleen whales and toothed whales like dolphins and orcas.
For a related video, click here
NEW DELHI (Reuters) - An Indian rocket on Monday placed domestic and foreign satellites in three different orbits on a single flight, a first for the nation and a low-cost option that could burnish its reputation for pioneering affordable options in space.
India's Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) C45, carrying Electromagnetic Spectrum Measurement satellite 'EMISAT' and 28 other satellites, lifts off from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota, India, April 1, 2019.
REUTERS/P.
Ravikumar The launch of a domestic intelligence satellite and 28 foreign ones came less than a week after India used an anti-satellite missile to take down one of its own satellites, demonstrating a capability only China, Russia and the United States had possessed previously.
The state-run Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) said 24 satellites from the United States, two from Lithuania and one each from Spain and Switzerland were positioned in Mondays launch, in addition to Indias EMISAT satellite.
This particular mission is very special for ISRO, its chairman, K. Sivan, said after the launch from Indias southeastern state of Andhra Pradesh.
This is for the first time the PSLV is carrying out three orbital missions in a single flight, he said in a speech, referring to the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle family of rockets.
Sivan, who previously told media the three-in-one launch would help cut costs, said the agency aimed to complete 30 more missions this year, including Indias second lunar exploration program known as the Chandrayaan-2.
Among the satellites in Mondays launch are 20 earth-imaging satellites of Planet Labs Inc, a private satellite operator based in San Francisco.
Two of the satellites, one from Lithuania and another from Switzerland, will be used for the Internet of Things, or connecting physical devices to the Web, the agency added.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated the agency on the launch and said his government was working on raising citizens interest in science and their respect for scientists.
ISRO wants companies such as state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd and Mumbai-based conglomerate Larsen & Toubro to build its rockets in future.
Last year India said it expected to spend less than 100 billion rupees ($1.4 billion) on its first manned space mission to be launched by 2022, suggesting it is likely to be cheaper than similar projects by the United States and China.
Indias 2014 launch of an unmanned Mars mission cost $74 million, just a fraction of the $671 million spent by U.S. space agency NASA on its MAVEN Mars mission.
($1=69.3080 Indian rupees)
NEW DELHI (Reuters) - India expects space debris from its anti-satellite weapons launch to burn out in less than 45 days, its top defense scientist said on Thursday, seeking to allay global concern about fragments hitting objects.
A Ballistic Missile Defence (BMD) Interceptor takes off to hit one of India's satellites in the first such test, from the Dr. A.P.J.
Abdul Kalam Island, in the eastern state of Odisha, India, March 27, 2019.
Picture taken March 27, 2019.
India's Press Information Bureau/Handout via REUTERS The comments came a day after India said it used an indigenously developed ballistic missile interceptor to destroy one of its own satellites at a height of 300 km (186 miles), in a test aimed at boosting its defenses in space.
Critics say such technology, known to be possessed only by the United States, Russia and China, raises the prospect of an arms race in outer space, besides posing a hazard by creating a cloud of fragments that could persist for years.
G. Satheesh Reddy, the chief of Indias Defence Research and Development Organisation, said a low-altitude military satellite was picked for the test, to reduce the risk of debris left in space.
Thats why we did it at lower altitude, it will vanish in no time, he told Reuters in an interview.
The debris is moving right now.
How much debris, we are trying to work out, but our calculations are it should be dying down within 45 days.
Few satellites operate at the altitude of 300 km, from which experts say the collision debris will fall back to earth, burning up in the atmosphere in a matter of weeks, instead of posing a threat to other satellites.
In 2007, China destroyed a satellite in a polar orbit, creating the largest orbital debris cloud in history, with more than 3,000 objects, according to the Secure World Foundation.
Because the impact altitude exceeded 800 km (500 miles), many of the resulting scraps stayed in orbit.
Some of it could still be there, Reddy said, adding that India had been much more careful in conducting its test.
In Florida, on a visit to the U.S. militarys Southern Command, acting U.S. Defense Secretary Patrick Shanahan warned any nations contemplating similar anti-satellite weapons tests that they risked making a mess in space from debris.
The U.S. militarys Strategic Command was tracking more than 250 pieces of debris from Indias missile test and would issue close-approach notifications as required until the debris enters the Earths atmosphere, Pentagon spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Dave Eastburn said.
Reddy identified the military satellite shot down as Microsat R, weighing about 750 kg (1,653 lb) and launched on Jan. 24. by the Indian Space Research Organisation for the purpose of the test.
A week after launch, it was moved into a different orbit in preparation for the test.
The technology has been completely proven, we hit it with centimeters of accuracy, probably less than 10 cm, Reddy said.
Related Coverage U.S. sees India space debris from weapons test eventually burning up Indias test of the anti-satellite weapon from an island off its eastern coast broke a lull since the United States used a ship-launched SM-3 missile to destroy a defunct spy satellite in Operation Burnt Frost in 2008.
The Union of Concerned Scientists said nearly 2,000 orbiting satellites provide key benefits to people around the world, and Indias launch showed more countries were seeking the capabilities that put satellites at risk.
Destroying satellites...can have ripple effects, producing dangerous clouds of debris that could stay in orbit for decades or centuries, disabling or destroying any satellites they collide with, one of its scientists, Laura Grego, said in a statement.
TAMPA, Fla. (Reuters) - Acting U.S. Defense Secretary Patrick Shanahan said on Thursday he expected debris from an Indian anti-satellite weapons test to eventually burn up in the atmosphere instead of creating a lasting debris field that could threaten other satellites.
FILE PHOTO: Acting U.S. Secretary of Defense Patrick Shanahan testifies to the House Armed Forces Committee on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., March 26, 2019.
REUTERS/Joshua Roberts Asked about comments by Indias top defense scientist that the debris would burn up in 45 days, Shanahan said he could not confirm any particular timeframe.
But in terms of threats to other objects, thats consistent with what Ive heard, that it will burn up in the atmosphere, Shanahan told reporters traveling with him in Florida.
The comments came a day after India said it used an indigenously developed ballistic missile interceptor to destroy one of its own satellites at a height of 300 km (186 miles), in a test aimed at boosting its defenses in space.
In 2007, China destroyed a satellite in a polar orbit, creating the largest orbital debris cloud in history, with more than 3,000 objects, according to the Secure World Foundation.
Since the impact altitude exceeded 800 km (500 miles), many of the resulting scraps stayed in orbit.
Asked whether he believed India, with a test at a lower altitude, had avoided a China-type scenario, Shanahan said: Thats my understanding.
The Pentagon said on Wednesday the U.S. militarys Strategic Command was tracking more than 250 pieces of debris from Indias missile test and would issue close-approach notifications as required until the debris enters the Earths atmosphere.
Lieutenant General David Thompson, vice commander of U.S. Air Force Space Command, said on Wednesday that the Indian test had hit the target vehicle.
A U.S. official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said on Thursday that no new threats had arisen from debris yet.
The official added that there was no information so far to cast doubt on the claims made by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
Critics say such technology, known to be possessed only by the United States, Russia and China, raises the prospect of an arms race in outer space, besides posing a hazard by creating a cloud of fragments that could persist for years.
Shanahan said the Indian test was a reminder about how space was becoming increasingly contested, and underscored the necessity of creating a Space Command - a stepping stone toward President Donald Trump goal of creating a Space Force.
It really speaks to: Why we need to stand up Space Command.
Think about the importance now of rules of engagement, the authorities, the tactics, techniques and procedures, Shanahan said.
BEIJING (Reuters) - A rocket developed by OneSpace failed to reach orbit after lifting off from a state launch facility in northwestern China, state media reported on Thursday, the second failed orbital launch by a privately funded Chinese firm in five months.
An anomaly occurred within tens of seconds after OneSpaces OS-M1 rocket blasted off from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Centre on Wednesday, the official Technology Daily reported, declaring that the launch had failed.
OneSpaces rocket was carrying the Lingque-1B earth-observing satellite developed by Beijing-based ZeroG Lab.
The satellite maker, partly funded by Shenzhen-listed Huaxun Fangzhou Co, has plans to build a network of remote sensing satellites.
Footage apparently from the launch site that was widely shared on Chinese social media showed the rocket lost control within a minute of takeoff.
Reuters could not independently verify the video.
OneSpace CEO Shu Chang said his company is determined to continue with its research and development of rockets, the state-run China Daily newspaper said.
We will endeavor to launch another OS-M carrier rocket, as well as two to three OS-X suborbital rockets before the end of this year, Shu said.
I accept todays failure, he said.
Other solid-propellant carrier rockets before ours also have had setbacks in their development, but all of them passed through hard times and eventually succeeded.
Explorations in science and technology have successes and failures.
We will never flinch or quit.
Tens of private Chinese space companies have joined a race in recent years to develop rockets capable of delivering low-cost micro-satellites with commercial applications, backed by mostly Chinese venture capital.
In May 2018, OneSpace became the first private firm to send an independently developed rocket into space.
That was followed by successful suborbital launches by another company, iSpace, four months later.
The next step was to send a payload into orbit.
Beijing-based Landspace attempted to deliver a satellite into orbit in October but failed.
The push by private Chinese firms to send a payload into orbit is partly inspired by the recent technological success of U.S. firms, such as SpaceX and Blue Origin, following a series of engineering setbacks.
It is also encouraged by the Chinese government.
The State Council, or cabinet, said in a white paper in December 2016 the space industry was an important part of Chinas overall development strategy.
Beijing encouraged private investors to participate in its push in a bid to commercialize some aspects of the space industry, setting up funds and opening up government launch sites for their use.
One of Chinas near-term tasks is to develop major satellite systems of remote sensing, communications and broadcasting, and navigation and positioning.
President Xi Jinping has made becoming a space flight superpower a priority for the government since coming to office in 2012.
The government aims to send a permanent manned space station into orbit by around 2022.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Sun bears, the smallest of the worlds eight bear species, are generally solitary animals, content to spend most of their time alone outside mating season, foraging for fruit, rodents, birds and insects in Southeast Asian tropical forests.
But, scientists said on Thursday, they also possess an unexpected social skill that puts them in elite company alongside humans and some of our close evolutionary cousins: the ability to mimic another bears facial expressions in a subtle type of communication.
Researchers studied 22 sun bears in spontaneous social play at the Bornean Sun Bear Conservation Center in Malaysia in outdoor forest enclosures big enough to let the animals decide whether to interact or avoid each other all day.
The bears exactly mimicked facial expressions they saw other bears produce during social play, copying with high precision not only the type of expression but also specific muscular movements such as raising their noses and wrinkling the bridge of their muzzles.
Other than people, facial mimicry has been observed in gorillas, orangutans, two monkey species and domesticated dogs.
Until now, only gorillas had been observed showing a degree of precision comparable to the complex facial mimicry of people.
But the sun bears proved equally as sophisticated as the gorillas and comparable to people, the study found.
The findings were surprising not only because sun bears are usually solitary but also because they are not closely related to humans.
It seems that some forms of communication are much more widely shared amongst mammalian species than we previously thought, said Derry Taylor, a comparative psychology PhD student at the University of Portsmouth in England and lead author of the study published in the journal Scientific Reports.
Slideshow (2 Images) Sun bears, with a black coat and a white or golden patch on the chest, are stocky arboreal omnivores reaching about 4-1/2 feet (1.4 meters) long and 145 pounds (65 kg).
Though they favor solitude in the wild, the bears in the study often engaged in gentle play, with slow grappling actions, and, less often, rough play, with faster actions and behaviors such as hitting and biting.
A key difference in the two distinct expressions that the bears mimicked was that one did not display the upper incisor teeth while the other did.
It remains uncertain what messages the bears were conveying to one another, but the mimicry might signal a readiness to transition from gentle to rougher play, Taylor said.
NEW DELHI (Reuters) - India shot down one of its own satellites in low-Earth orbit with a ground-to-space missile on Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, hailing his countrys first test of such weaponry as a breakthrough establishing it as a military space power.
India would be the fourth country to have used such an anti-satellite weapon after the United States, Russia and China, according to Modi, who heads into general elections next month.
Our scientists shot down a live satellite 300 kilometers away in space, in low-Earth orbit, Modi said in a television broadcast.
India has made an unprecedented achievement today, he added, speaking in Hindi.
India registered its name as a space power.
Anti-satellite weapons permit attacks on enemy satellites, blinding them or disrupting communications, as well as providing a technology base for intercepting ballistic missiles.
Such capabilities have raised fears of the weaponization of space and setting off a race between rivals.
(Graphic: MISSION SHAKTI - India shoots down satellite - tmsnrt.rs/2HHGp61) Acting U.S. Defense Secretary Patrick Shanahan warned that the use of anti-satellite (ASAT) weapons like the one India tested on Wednesday risk making a mess in space due to the debris fields the can leave behind.
The U.S. militarys Strategic Command was tracking more than 250 pieces of debris from Indias missile test and would issue close-approach notifications as required until the debris enters the Earths atmosphere, Pentagon spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Dave Eastburn said.
The New Delhi government and Washington, which have generally close relations, have been in talks regarding the event, and India publicly issued an aircraft safety advisory before the launch, Eastburn added.
Lieutenant General David Thompson, vice commander of U.S. Air Force Space Command, said the International Space Station was not at risk at this point.
Chinas foreign ministry said it hoped all countries can earnestly protect lasting peace and tranquillity in space.
Russia declined to make any immediate comment.
Indias neighbor and arch-rival, Pakistan, said space is the common heritage of mankind, and every nation has the responsibility to avoid actions which can lead to the militarization of this arena.
Tensions flared last month between the nuclear-armed foes after a militant attack in the disputed region of Kashmir.
India has had a space program for years, providing Earth-imaging satellites and launch capabilities as a cheaper alternative to Western space services.
It sent a low-cost probe to Mars in 2014 and plans its first manned space mission by 2022.
India also launched a lunar mission, Chandrayaan-1, in 2008 that included an orbiter and an impact probe.
The latest test, conducted from an island off Indias east coast, was aimed at protecting the countrys assets in space against foreign attacks, the government said.
A ballistic missile defense interceptor produced by the governments Defence Research and Development Organisation was used to shoot down the satellite, the foreign ministry said.
The capability achieved ... provides credible deterrence against threats to our growing space-based assets from long-range missiles, and proliferation in the types and numbers of missiles, it said in a statement.
The three-minute test in the low-Earth orbit ensured there was no debris in space and the remnants would decay and fall back on to the Earth within weeks, the ministry added.
But Jeffrey Lewis of the Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey said the risk of fragments hitting other objects in space remained.
One of the big risks of a hit-to-kill ASAT (anti-satellite weapon) is that it shatters the target, leaving a cloud of lethal debris that threatens other satellites.
In an extreme scenario, there is even a risk of collisional cascading in which one breakup triggers others in a chain reaction.
While tests can be arranged to minimize this risk, any operational use of such a system in war poses a real threat to all satellites in orbit at similar altitude.
China destroyed a satellite in 2007, creating the largest orbital debris cloud in history, with more than 3,000 objects, according to the Secure World Foundation.
Chinas test spurred India to develop its anti-satellite capability, said Ajay Lele, a senior fellow of the government-funded Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses in New Delhi.
A Ballistic Missile Defence (BMD) Interceptor takes off to hit one of India's satellites in the first such test, from the Dr. A.P.J.
Abdul Kalam Island, in the eastern state of Odisha, India, March 27, 2019.
Picture taken March 27, 2019.
India's Press Information Bureau/Handout via REUTERS Indian defense scientists had sought political approval for live tests but successive governments had baulked, fearing international condemnation, an Indian defense official said.
Brahma Chellaney, a security expert at New Delhis Centre of Policy Research, said the United States, Russia and China were pursuing anti-satellite (ASAT) weapons.
Space is being turned into a battlefront, making counter-space capabilities critical.
In this light, Indias successful kill with an ASAT weapon is significant.
UNITED STATES A PIONEER The United States ran the first anti-satellite test in 1959, when satellites were rare and new.
In the 1960s and early 1970s, the Soviet Union tested a weapon that would be launched into orbit, approach enemy satellites and destroy them with an explosive charge, according to the Union of Concerned Scientists.
In 1985 the United States tested the ASM-135, launched from an F-15 fighter, destroying a U.S. satellite called Solwind P78-1.
There were no tests for more than 20 years, until China entered the anti-satellite arena in 2007.
The following year, the United States used a ship-launched SM-3 missile to destroy a defunct spy satellite in Operation Burnt Frost.
Modis Hindu nationalist-led government has taken a strong position on national security, launching air strikes last month on a suspected militant camp in Pakistan that spurred retaliatory raids.
Although he faces criticism for failing to deliver on high economic growth and create jobs, a hawkish position on security should help Modi at the ballot box, pollsters say.
The leader of the main opposition Congress party, Rahul Gandhi, congratulated defense scientists but took a dig at Modi for the announcement on a day that commemorates theatricals.
I would also like to wish the prime minister a very happy World Theatre Day, Gandhi said.
School children held flags in the western Indian city of Ahmedabad celebrating the test.
Slideshow (7 Images) A concern for India is that China could help its old ally Pakistan neutralize any advantage.
Pakistan and China have a very deep strategic kind of partnership.
So some kind of sharing of capabilities cant be ignored, Uday Bhaskar, director of the Society for Policy Studies, another Delhi think-tank, said.
Image copyright Getty Images Abortion services in England must provide a more consistent service to women, the NHS says.
The call comes from the National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (NICE) - the official NHS advisory body - in its first abortion guidance.
The draft proposal says women should be offered an appointment within a week and a termination a week after that.
All services should also accept self-referrals rather than expecting women to see a GP first, it adds.
NICE said most services do this, but some hospitals still expect women to get a GP referral too, whereas private clinics that carry out abortions for the NHS tend to accept self-referrals.
This requirement does not change the need to get two doctors to agree to the termination - that is still required, but can be done by the clinic's own doctors.
All services should be able to offer women the option of surgical or medical abortions and if they cannot, they should refer women to a service that can.
Guidance 'should address barriers' The guidance also reflects the change in the rules - announced last year - that women who have a medical abortion before 10 weeks should be able to have the second of the two pills at home, to avoid the risk of women miscarrying while on the journey home.
Paul Chrisp, of NICE, said: "Choosing to terminate a pregnancy is an important part of reproductive health for many women, which is why it's essential that providers are able to offer consistent support and advice."
Prof Lesley Regan, president of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, which helped to draw up the guidance, added it should "help address significant barriers that women experience".
But Clare McCarthy, of the campaign group Right to Life, said the guidance would have the effect of "rushing" women through a termination which could cause "post-abortion regret".
The proposals are out for consultation until the end of May.
Image copyright Getty Images Pregnancy club Bounty UK has been given a 400,000 fine for illegally sharing the personal information of more than 14 million people.
The fine was issued by the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) in what it said was an "unprecedented" case.
Bounty compiled personal data but did not tell people that it was shared with 39 other organisations, said the ICO.
Bounty said it "acknowledged" the ICO's findings and had now made changes to how it handled member data.
'Careless' data-sharing The Bounty pregnancy and parenting club offers free samples, vouchers and guides to prospective and new parents via packs given out in hospitals or sent to people who use its apps.
Bounty gathered information from apps, its website, cards in merchandise packs and from new mothers in hospital.
The ICO said that while many knew Bounty as a pregnancy club, few knew that it was also a data broker supplying information to third parties that would use it to fine-tune direct marketing.
Bounty breached the 1998 Data Protection Act by not being "open and transparent" with people about what would be done with their personal data.
Image caption Bounty took data in hospitals and from apps and merchandise packs It shared 34.3 million records from June 2017 to April 2018 with 39 organisations including marketing agencies Acxiom, Equifax and Indicia.
The data shared was of "potentially vulnerable" people including new mothers and very young children, said the ICO.
"The number of personal records and people affected in this case is unprecedented in the history of the ICO's investigations into the data broking industry and organisations linked to this," said Steve Eckersley, the watchdog's director of investigations.
Mr Eckersley said the "careless" data-sharing was likely to have caused distress to many people because they did not know it was being shared so widely.
Jim Kelleher, Bounty's managing director, said: "In the past, we did not take a broad enough view of our responsibilities and as a result our data-sharing processes, specifically with regards to transparency, were not robust enough."
He added that the ICO had recognised that Bounty had changed its data-handling policies and that it now kept fewer records for less time.
It had also ended relationships with all data brokers.
Staff had also been trained to handle data to comply with the latest legislation.
In addition, said Mr Kelleher, Bounty planned to appoint an independent data expert to carry out an annual survey to ensure it did not breach data protection laws.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Experts at Cardiff University said the rise of 'high harm' crimes amid falling overall violence was 'difficult to explain' Overall levels of violence in England and Wales are on the decline, in spite of an increase in knife crime, a study of A&E data suggests.
Analysis by Cardiff University found admissions of patients injured in violent attacks dropped 1.7% in 2018.
It indicates a rise in knife crime, gun crime and homicide recorded by police is not part of a wider upsurge.
The study's authors said the rise of "high harm" crimes amid falling overall violence was "difficult to explain".
The National Violence Surveillance Network (NVSN) survey has recorded a near consistent downward trend in violent crime since it was launched in 2002, although levels have remained relatively stable in recent years.
Experts analysed data collected from a sample of 126 A&E departments, minor injury units and walk-in centres across Wales and all nine regions of England.
They estimate 187,584 people attended A&E with injuries sustained in violence in 2018 - 3,162 fewer than the previous year.
Killed in 2019: The UK's first 100 victims Motives and circumstances behind killings have varied - as have the age and gender of the victims.
The National Violence Surveillance Network also suggested fewer younger people sought hospital treatment, which they said was "contrary" to public perceptions of a violent crime "epidemic" among teenagers.
However, there was a small increase in the number of women who were attacked and injured and a rise of more than 5% among both men and women aged 51 and over.
The figures give a different impression to police data, which suggests violent crime recorded by police in England and Wales rose 19% in the 12 months to the end of September.
The picture on violent crime in England and Wales can be confusing, with so many different sets of figures apparently telling us lots of different things.
The police statistics partly depend on the public's willingness to report offences - and to a larger extent on how accurately forces record them.
Since 2014, police forces have improved their recording processes, which in turn has contributed to an apparently significant rise in offending.
The increase has also been driven by the inclusion within the category of "violent crime" of offences such as harassment.
The police figures are a reliable indicator of high-harm violence, such as robbery, knife crime and murder - these are less affected by recording changes.
But for overall trends, it's better to use data from the official Crime Survey of England and Wales - whose methods haven't altered - and Cardiff University's study.
They both tell the same story - a sustained reduction in violence over many years.
Image copyright Getty Images Bespoke web or phone-based psychological therapy should be offered to people with severe irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), researchers say.
Their work, published in the journal Gut, shows cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) could reduce symptoms - even when not delivered face-to-face.
England's health watchdog already recommends face-to-face CBT for people who have IBS, despite other treatment.
But researchers say many people are unable to access it.
Irritable bowel syndrome is a common and often life-long condition that affects the bowels - it can cause stomach cramps, bloating, diarrhoea and constipation.
There's no cure, but changes to diet and medicines can help control the symptoms.
The team of scientists from the University of Southampton and King's College London, say their newly designed phone and web-based CBT requires fewer therapist hours and could be offered more widely to people who need it.
"I don't have symptoms anymore."
Laura Day, 31, a freelance journalist living in London, told the BBC that taking part in the web-based therapy was "the best thing she had ever done".
She remembers being "the kid with the nervous tummy" from the age of about five, and finding mornings particularly difficult.
She said she would often spend a long time on the loo, opening her bowels two or three times before she left the house and everything had to revolve around her IBS.
She used to plan emergency toilet stops on her way to work and made sure she had diarrhoea tablets with her at all times.
She told the BBC: "I was sceptical about the therapy at first and could not understand how changing my mindset could change my bowels.
"But one of the most helpful things was understanding the strong link between how you think and how your body reacts.
"Now when I have nervous moments I don't dwell on them, I don't worry about it being something more sinister any more and I understand what is going on."
'Unhelpful adaptations' The trial involved 558 people who had long-standing IBS, with symptoms despite medication and lifestyle advice.
A third of people had telephone-based therapy (eight one-hour sessions speaking to a therapist, alongside their usual, standard treatment) Another third were offered web-based therapy (eight modules of interactive, online CBT and five half hour-sessions with therapists over the phone) The rest had standard treatment alone (such as anti-spasm medications and life style advice) Both web and telephone therapy covered a number of topics, including detailed information on how the gut works, what IBS is, how to spot unhelpful behaviour and how to change and develop stable, healthy eating habits.
At the end of 12 months, researchers found patients who had had either therapy reported fewer symptoms, more ability to manage work and relationships and less anxiety and depression than people on standard treatment alone.
Lead researcher Dr Hazel Everitt told the BBC: "What often happens when we have chronic conditions that impact on our ability to get on and do what we want in our lives, is that we adapt and try and live our lives despite the problem and sometimes the adaptations that we make in the long term are unhelpful.
"An example might be that if you are concerned about your bowels you might be checking where the toilets are.
"Using CBT we can help people work through those behaviours and unhelpful thoughts."
'Cut adrift' Alison Reid, chief executive officer of the charity the IBS Network, said she welcomed the recommendations for further care and support.
She added: "I think it is indisputable that current health provision is wholly failing those living with IBS who, after a diagnosis, often feel cut adrift.
"But a significant number of those we talk to take some time to acknowledge they have a role to play in their health and well-being and resist the suggestion that the way they think plays any part in their condition.
"And while the current system of care under the NHS is not giving people living with IBS the support they need, many of the charity's members who are not digital natives feel marginalised by an increasing number of services going online."
Researchers are currently training NHS therapists in England to deliver telephone-based therapy through the Improving Access to Psychological Therapy programme.
And they are working with commercial companies to develop the internet-based version.
They have also submitted it to the NHS for consideration.
Image copyright SPL Image caption The baby was conceived using an experimental form of IVF Fertility doctors in Greece and Spain say they have produced a baby from three people in order to overcome a woman's infertility.
The baby boy was born weighing 2.9kg (6lbs) on Tuesday.
The mother and child are said to be in good health.
The doctors say they are "making medical history" which could help infertile couples around the world.
But some experts in the UK say the procedure raises ethical questions and should not have taken place.
The experimental form of IVF uses an egg from the mother, sperm from the father, and another egg from a donor woman.
It was developed to help families affected by deadly mitochondrial diseases which are passed down from mother to baby.
It has been tried in only one such case - a family from Jordan - and that provoked much controversy.
But some fertility doctors believe the technology could increase the odds of IVF too.
This is all about mitochondria - they are the tiny compartments inside nearly every cell of the body that convert food into useable energy.
They are defective in mitochondrial diseases so combining the mother's DNA with a donor's mitochondria could prevent disease.
But there is also speculation mitochondria may have a role in a successful pregnancy too.
That claim has not been tested.
The patient was a 32-year-old woman in Greece who had endured four unsuccessful cycles of IVF.
She is now a mother, but her son has a tiny amount of his genetic makeup from the donor woman as mitochondria have their own DNA.
The structure of a cell Nucleus: Where the majority of our DNA is held - this determines how we look and our personality Mitochondria: Often described as the cell's factories, these create the energy to make the cell function Cytoplasm: The jelly like substance that contains the nucleus and mitochondria Dr Panagiotis Psathas, president of the Institute of Life in Athens, said: "A woman's inalienable right to become a mother with her own genetic material became a reality.
"We are very proud to announce an international innovation in assisted reproduction, and we are now in a position to make it possible for women with multiple IVF failures or rare mitochondrial genetic diseases to have a healthy child."
The Greek team were working with the Spanish centre Embryotools, which has announced that 24 other women are taking part in the trial and eight embryos are ready to be implanted.
In February 2018, the doctors in Newcastle who pioneered the technology were given permission to create the UK's first three-person babies.
The fertility regulator approved two attempts, both in families with rare mitochondrial diseases.
Some doctors in the UK argued the two applications - fertility and disease prevention - are morally very different.
Tim Child, from the University of Oxford and the medical director of The Fertility Partnership, said: "I'm concerned that there's no proven need for the patient to have her genetic material removed from her eggs and transferred into the eggs of a donor.
"The risks of the technique aren't entirely known, though may be considered acceptable if being used to treat mitochondrial disease, but not in this situation.
"The patient may have conceived even if a further standard IVF cycle had been used."
Dr Beth Thompson, from the Wellcome Trust, said: "UK regulation was based on strong public engagement and scientific evidence and allows the risks and benefits to be carefully weighed up.
"We're proud to be supporting the first UK study into the use of mitochondria donation techniques in a well regulated environment, but we're concerned about studies taken place without similar levels of oversight."
Follow James on Twitter
Image copyright Getty Images Scientists have taken cancer apart piece-by-piece to reveal its weaknesses, and come up with new ideas for treatment.
A team at the Wellcome Sanger Institute disabled every genetic instruction, one at a time, inside 30 types of cancer.
It has thrown up 600 new cancer vulnerabilities and each could be the target of a drug.
Cancer Research UK praised the sheer scale of the study.
Precision The study heralds the future of personalised cancer medicine.
At the moment drugs like chemotherapy cause damage throughout the body.
One of the researchers is Dr Fiona Behan, whose mother died after getting cancer for the second time.
The first course of chemotherapy damaged her mother's heart, so she was not physically strong enough for many treatments the second time around.
Dr Behan told the BBC: "This is so important because currently we treat cancer by treating the entire patient's body.
We don't target the cancer cells specifically.
"The information we have uncovered in this study has identified key weak-spots of the cancer cells, and will allow us to develop drugs that target the cancer and leave the healthy tissue undamaged."
Genetic aberration Image copyright Other Image caption The researchers believe their work could lead to new treatments Cancer is caused by mutations inside our body's own cells that change the instructions written into our DNA.
Mutations corrupt cells leading to them growing uncontrollably, spreading around the body and eventually killing people.
The researchers embarked on a gargantuan feat of disabling each genetic instruction - called a gene - inside cancers, to see which were crucial for survival.
They disrupted nearly 20,000 genes in more than 300 lab-grown tumours made from 30 different types of cancer.
They used a tool called Crispr - the same genetic technology that was used to re-engineer two babies in China last year.
It is a relatively new, easy and cheap tool for manipulating DNA, and this study would have been an impossible feat just a decade ago.
The results, published in the journal Nature, revealed 6,000 crucial genes which at least one type of cancer needs to survive.
Some were unsuitable for developing cancer drugs, as they are also essential in healthy cells.
Others are already the target of precision drugs like Herceptin in breast cancer - the team called this a "sanity check" that proves their method works.
And yet more are beyond current science to develop suitable drugs, so the researchers narrowed down a shortlist of 600 potential new targets for drugs to attack.
Laser sight One potential target is "Werner syndrome RecQ helicase" also known more simply as WRN.
The research team found it was essential for keeping some of the most genetically unstable cancers alive.
WRN plays a vital role in around 15% of colon cancers and 28% of stomach cancers, but there are no drugs that target it.
The work was a collaboration between Sanger, the European Molecular Biology Laboratory and pharmaceutical giant GSK.
All the findings are publicly available.
The eventual aim of the research is to develop a "Cancer Dependency Map" of every vulnerability in every type of cancer.
Then doctors would be able to test a patient's tumour and give them a cocktail of precision drugs to kill the cancerous cells.
Dr Behan told the BBC: "We're understanding what's going on in the cancer cells so we can shoot our machine gun at the cancer cells, not at the whole body as chemotherapy does.
"This is the first step in putting a laser sight on our machine gun."
Prof Karen Vousden, Cancer Research UK's chief scientist, said: "What makes this research so powerful, is the scale.
"This work provides some excellent starting points and the next step will be a thorough analysis of the genes that have been identified as weaknesses in this study, to determine if they will one day lead to the development of new treatments for patients."
Follow James on Twitter.
Image copyright Getty Images The start of spring has brought little respite for the NHS in England, with A&E departments still struggling.
One in seven patients spent longer than the four-hour waiting target figure in A&E in March - only marginally better than the situation seen during winter.
It comes amid mounting concern about the pressure in cancer care.
That data lags behind the A&E figures - it only covers the winter months - but shows nearly one in four patients waited longer than they should.
That is a record low - as the BBC reported last month - since records began 10 years ago.
Long waits are also being seen in other parts of the UK, with nearly four in 10 patients waiting more than two months for treatment to start in Northern Ireland.
Performance is better in Wales and Scotland, but both are still missing the target to see cancer patients.
Sorry, your browser is unable to display this content.
Please upgrade to a more recent browser.
Search for a postcode Eg 'W1A 1AA' If you can't see the NHS Tracker, click or tap here.
Dr Nick Scriven, of the Society of Acute Medicine, said: "This has been and continues to be an extremely challenging time for urgent care in the NHS, which has been overlooked amid the chaos of Brexit and the smokescreen it has created."
He also warned that the situation could get worse even though winter has ended.
"My major imminent concern is that hospitals are working flat out at the moment and we have a looming spell of bank holidays, when many support services will not be functioning, heaping up the already relentless pressure."
The warning comes as the NHS is paving the way to scrap the four-hour A&E target in England.
Next month, 14 hospitals are to start piloting new ways of measuring A&E performance, which will include one-hour targets for the most seriously-ill patients.
Bosses believe the four-hour target is outdated and distorts priorities because it does not differentiate between those with minor and major conditions, but emergency doctors have called for the target to be kept.
Meanwhile, there are more than four million people on the waiting list for hospital operations, such as knee and hip replacements.
That is nearly double the figure a decade ago.
But Pauline Philip, of NHS England, said hospitals were seeing rising demand, praising staff for working "tirelessly" to care for patients.
Image copyright Getty Images Doctors' leaders have raised concerns over a lack of clarity about drug availability highlighted by no-deal Brexit planning.
The British Medical Association (BMA) warns "a culture of secrecy" could undermine the ability of medics to plan care and deliver treatment.
Confidential NHS England files, seen by Newsnight, suggest supply chain issues mean some drugs "cannot be stockpiled".
The government said it has been "as transparent as possible".
With political discussions continuing and EU leaders having agreed a six-month extension to Brexit, the Department for Health has been co-ordinating work across the sector, involving the NHS, pharmaceutical companies and others to prepare for a no-deal Brexit scenario.
"Stockpiling is just one part of our multi-layered approach to minimise any supply disruption, which includes alternative transport routes," a spokesman said.
"We are confident that, if everyone does what they need to do, the supply of medicines should be uninterrupted in the event of a no deal."
The BMA, which represents doctors across the UK, said it was vital for patient safety that medics were informed about which drugs were being stockpiled and which might be affected by a no-deal Brexit.
"Only if there is clarity on the availability of medicines can GPs, consultants, pharmacists, nurses and health care professionals plan and deliver effective patient care," said Dr Andrew Green, the BMA's GP committee clinical and prescribing lead.
"If doctors and patients are left in the dark, healthcare professionals are left not knowing what drugs are available to be prescribed, what alternatives there may be and for how long."
The comments follow a Newsnight report about an internal NHS England document, which detailed concerns about several drugs which pharmaceutical companies have been unable to stockpile.
In January, Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the government had asked firms to stockpile a six-week supply of all drugs which do not have a short shelf life.
This would provide continuity of care in the event of any supply problems caused by a no-deal Brexit.
However, the internal document listed several drugs which had been impossible to stockpile because of problems including "capacity constraints" and "disruption in production".
There is no suggestion that any supply disruption has been caused directly by Brexit.
Image caption Consultant neurologist Dr David Nicholl said documents he was sent "should be in the public domain" The password-protected document, marked "official sensitive" and "strictly confidential", was shared with a handful of senior doctors.
One of those who received the file was Dr David Nicholl, a consultant neurologist at University Hospitals Birmingham, who was sent the documents in March.
He decided to breach his agreement to keep the information confidential, telling Newsnight it "should be in the public domain".
"There's nothing that I've seen in those documents that actually justifies them being confidentially held.
In fact, this problem could have been sorted out a lot more easily some months ago, if the documents had been more widely shared," Dr Nicholl said.
The Department of Health and Social Care suggests that sharing such information could lead to people considering local stockpiling, which could cause shortages.
It said that it and the NHS have "consistently shared all relevant no-deal plans with clinicians and stakeholder groups".
But other patient organisations and charities echoed the BMA's concerns over a lack of transparency about the potential shortages of some drugs, which included some medicines used to treat epilepsy.
Epilepsy Action chief executive Philip Lee said the government needed to be "more transparent at this critical time".
"The added uncertainty the Brexit process brings only increases the concerns of patients, doctors and charities," he added.
Dr Nicola Strickland, president of the Royal College of Radiologists, said the assumption was that all drugs were being stockpiled.
"It would be very reassuring for our patients and for our doctors actually to be given a list of which drugs are being stockpiled, and whether any of them are not," she said.
The NHS Confederation, which represents organisations across the healthcare sector, said: "We have been involved in regular discussions with NHS England, NHS Improvement, the Department of Health and Social Care as well as our members in NHS trusts across the country and we've not yet heard any details of medicine shortages related to Brexit."
You can watch Newsnight on BBC Two weeknights at 22:30 or on iPlayer, subscribe to the programme on YouTube and follow it on Twitter.
Image copyright Getty Images Four million cases of childhood asthma could be caused by air pollution from traffic - around 13% of those diagnosed each year, a global study suggests.
Current pollution guidelines may need changing because most children developing asthma live in areas within recommended levels, the authors say.
South Korea has the highest burden of pollution-related asthma, along with Chinese cities, the study found.
Experts say urgent action to protect children is required.
The study, in The Lancet Planetary Health journal, by researchers from George Washington University, looked at levels of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) as an indicator of traffic pollution.
NO2 is just one element of air pollution, which is also made up of particulate matter, ozone and carbon monoxide.
Together they are known to be harmful to health and particularly damaging to the airways and lungs, increasing the risk of asthma and other lung diseases.
Using population data, information on child asthma cases diagnosed by doctors and NO2 measurements from ground-level monitors and satellites, the researchers estimated the number of asthma cases related to traffic pollution in under-18s in 194 countries and 125 major cities.
How countries compare The countries with the highest rates of childhood asthma cases linked to traffic pollution are: Kuwait - 550 per 100,000 United Arab Emirates - 460 per 100,000 Canada - 450 per 100,000 The largest number of asthma cases attributable to traffic pollution are estimated to occur in: China - 760,000 cases India - 350,000 US - 240,000 Indonesia - 160,000 Brazil - 140,000 The countries with the highest percentage of pollution-related childhood asthma cases: South Korea - 31% Kuwait - 30% Qatar - 30% United Arab Emirates - 30% Bahrain - 26% The UK, China and the US were all on 19%, with India on 14%.
The true levels of pollution-related asthma may be higher in many low and middle-income countries, the study said, because asthma cases often go undiagnosed in these regions.
Lead study author Ploy Achakulwisut said: "Our study indicates that policy initiatives to alleviate traffic-related air pollution can lead to improvements in children's health and also reduce greenhouse gas emissions."
She pointed to London's ultra-low emission zone congestion charges and the electrification of Shenzhen's entire bus fleet as recent examples.
Image copyright Getty Images The World Health Organisation says asthma rates in children have been increasing sharply since the 1950s.
It estimates that 4.2 million premature deaths around the world are linked to air pollution, from heart disease, stroke and respiratory infections in children.
WHO guidelines state that annual average NO2 concentrations should be 40ug/m3 (21 parts per billion).
Prof Rajen Naidoo, from the University of KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa, said: "This strengthens the case for the downward revision of these global [pollution] standards and for stronger national policy initiatives in countries without air quality standards."
And he said the findings highlighted that there was an urgent need to protect the health of the most vulnerable in society - children.
'Breathe clean air' Prof Jonathan Grigg, from Queen Mary University London, said other components of the pollution mix should be targeted, not just NO2, and the effects on adult asthma should also be studied.
But he said the study provided "further evidence that ultra-low emission zones, such as the one launched recently in London, must be of sufficient size to reduce exposure of all children living in these urban areas."
Dr Matthew Loxham, fellow in respiratory biology and air pollution toxicology in medicine at the University of Southampton, said it was "beyond doubt" that air pollution causes adverse health effects.
"The issue is how we generate the data to decide what the [WHO] guideline levels should be or - perhaps more fundamentally - get across the message that there is no appropriate guideline level," he said.
Dr Samantha Walker, director of policy and research at Asthma UK, said polluted air could be affecting an estimated half a million children with asthma in the UK.
"The government must commit to targets that reduce toxic air across the UK to the legal levels recommended by the World Health Organisation, so that future generations can breathe clean air," she said.
Image copyright Getty Images Spending on children's mental health services - such as school counsellors and drop-in centres - has fallen in real terms in more than a third of areas in England, a report shows.
The study, by the Children's Commissioner, found spending had risen by 17% overall but many children faced a "postcode lottery" of provision.
Anne Longfield said the figures were "extremely worrying".
Officials said investing in these services was a priority.
'Before crisis point' The report looked at spending on so-called "low level" mental health services - designed to prevent or treat problems such as depression, eating disorders or anxiety - preventing the need for intensive, specialist intervention.
In general, half the funding comes from the NHS and half from local authorities.
The report found that very high-spending areas were masking a larger proportion of low-spending areas, and that wide variations existed across the country.
According to the report: Around 226m was spent on low-level children's mental health services in 2018-19 - an increase of 17% in real-terms (taking inflation into account) on the previous year While the top quarter of local areas spent 1.1m or more over the financial year, the bottom 25% spent 177,000 or less 58% of areas reported a real-terms increase in spending between 2018-19 But 37% saw a real-terms fall - often driven by a reduction in local authority spending In London, local authority spending was 17.88 per child compared with 5.32 in the East of England Ms Longfield said: "This report reveals for the first time the postcode lottery facing the increasing number of children suffering from low-level mental health conditions like anxiety and depression.
"The children I speak to who are suffering from conditions like anxiety or depression aren't asking for intensive inpatient therapeutic treatment, they just want to be able to talk to a counsellor about their worries and to be offered advice on how to stop their problems turning into a crisis."
A statement from the Department of Health and Social Care said government plans would allow 70,000 more children a year to have access to specialist mental health care by 2020-21.
"Early intervention is vital and we're going further, piloting a four-week waiting time standard for treatment, training a brand new dedicated mental health workforce for schools across the country, and teaching pupils what good mental and physical health looks like."
The charity YoungMinds said some young people found support from youth workers and school counsellors life-saving and the situation was deeply concerning.
Emma Thomas, the charity's chief executive, added: "While extra money for specialist NHS services is of course welcome, it's better for everyone if young people can get help before their needs escalate or they hit crisis point."
Image copyright SWNS Image caption Ian Paterson was jailed in 2017 after being convicted of intentionally wounding patients Private hospitals must do more to keep patients safe and prevent rogue surgeons like Ian Paterson from harming anyone again, the Royal College of Surgeons says.
Paterson was convicted of carrying out unnecessary breast surgery operations and jailed for 20 years in 2017.
Surgeons say the private sector must collect and publish the same level of patient safety data as the NHS.
And information about consultants' performances should be shared better.
Prof Derek Alderson, president of the Royal College of Surgeons, said surgeons were "deeply shocked" by the case of Ian Paterson, who was found guilty of 17 counts of wounding with intent.
During his trial, it came to light that although concerns were raised about Paterson in the NHS, he continued to work in the private sector.
An independent inquiry into the breast surgeon's conduct has heard evidence from more than 150 patients, with more still coming forward.
'Stronger protection' Prof Alderson said the case highlighted the need for "an urgent review of how we assure safety standards in the independent sector".
"There is no doubt that Ian Paterson was a rogue individual.
That said, the entire healthcare sector must do more to prevent someone like him from ever causing harm again.
"This starts with being able to collect and analyse good quality patient safety and outcomes data," he said.
"There must be stronger oversight and protection for patients, regardless of whether they have their operation in an NHS hospital or in the independent sector."
The Royal College of Surgeons is calling for: private hospitals to collect and publish data on patient safety and clinical audits data to be collected on all new surgical procedures and devices used in the private or NHS sectors better monitoring of consultants' practising arrangements better sharing of information about a doctor's performance between private and NHS sectors agreements between private hospitals and local NHS trusts to provide critical care support if there are complications after an operation Currently, the private or independent sector, does not have to publish data on how many and what procedures have been carried out - unlike the NHS.
The private sector has also not contributed to the majority of national clinical audits that collect data on care outcomes, including cancer ones - although it does register data on all replacement joints.
Private hospitals do have to report data on unexpected deaths and serious injuries, although the data is not routinely published by the Care Quality Commission (CQC).
'Serious incidents' The body which represents private sector providers, the Independent Healthcare Providers Network, said it had made sure that providers were now allowed to submit more data and participate in more clinical audits.
"However, further work is needed to allow the sector to participate in the full range of NHS data sets and clinical audits and it is now vital that all those involved in better aligning NHS and independent sector data maintain the momentum," it said.
Prof Ted Baker, chief inspector of hospitals at the CQC, said it would continue to hold all providers of healthcare to the same standards of quality and safety, "regardless of how they are funded".
"All independent providers are required to notify CQC of any serious incident that takes place in their services.
"That information is used alongside intelligence gathered from other sources such as feedback from patients and their families, clinical audits and relevant performance data.
"Together this information helps us to determine where and when to inspect and identify where action is needed by providers to improve care," Prof Baker said.
The CQC said it fully supported the drive to extend access to the national clinical audit programme across the independent sector.
It said it was also going to start using a tool that monitors changes to the quality of care, including unexpected deaths and serious injuries.
The Royal College of Surgeons says rising numbers of people are being treated in the private sector as the NHS looks to relieve capacity.
In 2017-18, the private sector undertook almost a third of all NHS-funded knee and hip replacements, the college says.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Sweat bees sometimes land on people to imbibe perspiration A Taiwanese woman was found by doctors to have four small sweat bees living inside her eye, the first such incident on the island.
The 28-year-old woman, identified only as Ms He, was pulling out weeds when the insects flew into her eyes.
Dr Hong Chi Ting of the Fooyin University Hospital told the BBC he was "shocked" when he pulled the 4mm insects out by their legs.
Ms He has now been discharged and is expected to make a full recovery.
Sweat bees, also known as Halictidae, are attracted to sweat and sometimes land on people to imbibe perspiration.
They also drink tears for their high protein content, according to a study by the Kansas Entomological Society.
'They were all alive' Ms He was weeding around her relatives' graves when the insects flew into her left eye.
She was visiting the grave as part of the annual Chinese Qing Ming tomb-sweeping festival, which is traditionally observed by sprucing up loved ones' graves.
When a gust of wind blew into her eyes she assumed it was dirt that had entered, she told reporters.
Image copyright Hong Chi Ting Image caption The tiny sweat bees were found inside her left eye But hours later, her eyes were still swollen and in pain, leading her to seek medical help at the hospital in southern Taiwan.
Image copyright Hong Chi Ting Image caption The woman's eye was badly swollen when she went to seek medical treatment "She couldn't completely close her eyes.
I looked into the gap with a microscope and saw something black that looked like an insect leg," Dr Hong, an ophthalmology professor at the hospital told the BBC.
"I grabbed the leg and very slowly took one out, then I saw another one, and another and another.
They were still intact and all alive."
Dr Hong added that the bees could have been blown inside her eye by a gust of wind and found themselves stuck inside.
"These bees don't usually attack people but they like drinking sweat, hence their name," he said.
You may also be interested in: Dr Hong added that Ms He was "lucky" that she did not rub her eyes while the bees were inside.
"She was wearing contact lenses so she didn't dare to rub her eyes in case she broke the lens.
If she did she could have induced the bees to produce venom... she could have gone blind."
But what's happened to the bees?
"They are still alive, they've been sent as specimens to another organisation and will be studied," said Dr Hong.
"This is the first time in Taiwan we've seen something like this."
Image caption More than 100 new HIV cases were identified among drug users in Glasgow city centre between 2015 and 2017 A rise in cocaine injecting and homelessness are behind a 10-fold increase in HIV infection among drug users in Glasgow, research suggests.
The Glasgow city centre outbreak is the UK's largest in more than 30 years.
The study - conducted between 2011 and 2018 - involved almost 4,000 people who inject drugs in Greater Glasgow and Clyde.
More than 100 new cases of HIV were identified among drug users in the city between 2015 and 2017.
Before that, the number of new cases among drug users across Scotland had "remained stable" at about 15 a year.
Scientists at Glasgow Caledonian University (GCU) said a seven-year study showed increased injecting and homelessness were key factors in producing "a perfect HIV storm".
Dr Andrew McAuley, a senior research fellow in blood borne viruses at GCU, said there had been "a hugely significant increase in the prevalence of HIV infection in the population of people who inject drugs in Glasgow".
This was "largely driven by an outbreak of HIV first detected in 2015", he added.
Cocaine injecting was "one of the strongest drivers" behind the outbreak, and the phenomenon of cocaine injecting is "fairly new to Scotland", Dr McAuley explained.
Elsewhere in the world, drug users tend to inject crack cocaine.
In Scotland, however, powder cocaine injecting is more prevalent.
He went on to say that "puts users at particular risk of blood borne virus transmission" because cocaine is a stimulant so users inject more frequently than they would inject heroin.
"With people who are injecting more frequently, their ability to access clean and sterile equipment for every injection is compromised so that certainly puts people at risk."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption There have been calls for safe "fix rooms" to be set up Dr McAuley also claimed the study, published in the Lancet HIV medical journal, supported those arguing for a safe drugs consumption room to be set up in Glasgow city centre.
He pointed to more than nine out of 10 people diagnosed with HIV now being successfully engaged in treatment.
Dr McAuley said: "The prevalence of HIV has been low and stable in this population since major outbreaks of HIV in the 1980s in Edinburgh and Dundee.
"However, the prevalence of HIV in Glasgow has increased 10-fold among people who inject drugs in the past seven years, from just 1% to over 10% in the city centre.
"The key drivers of infection are an increase in cocaine injecting, and homelessness.
"We also have a large population of people who inject in public places in Glasgow at a time when HIV has re-emerged.
"A combination of these factors has created a perfect storm for rapid transmission of HIV among people who inject drugs in Glasgow."
Heroin-assisted treatment The research, carried out together with NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde and the University of the West of Scotland, found the number of drug users with HIV went from one in 87 in 2011-12 to 25 out of 231 in 2017-18.
The proportion of users who were infected went up from from 1.1% to 10.8%.
The HIV outbreak in Glasgow occurred "despite the existence of a comprehensive harm reduction environment", the research found.
It highlighted that more than one million clean needles and syringes are distributed among drug injectors every year.
Dr McAuley said the research "provides further justification for interventions such as the proposed drug consumption room and heroin-assisted treatment services in Glasgow".
He added: "Crucially, over 90% of the individuals diagnosed as part of the outbreak have been successfully engaged in HIV treatment as a result of the multidisciplinary response implemented by the health board."
Glasgow Health and Social Care Partnership (HSCP), which supports opening a "safe" injecting room, welcomed the findings of the study.
Susanne Millar, the body's chief officer for strategy and operations, said it provided "further credible evidence for looking beyond current methods for helping this very vulnerable group".
She added: "We anticipate opening a Heroin Assisted Treatment facility in Glasgow later this year which will benefit heroin users who inject cocaine also, one of the groups most at risk of HIV transmission."
The Scottish government's public health minister, Joe FitzPatrick, said: "We support Glasgow Health and Social Care Partnership's proposals to introduce a secure, medically supervised consumption facility.
"We must be willing to back innovative, evidence-based approaches that can make a real difference to people's lives."
He added that an expert group on drugs had been convened to examine what further changes "either in practice or in the law, could help save lives and reduce harm".
Image copyright PA Image caption The tribunal said it was "satisfied" Dr Hadiza Bawa-Garba had reflected on the events that led to Jack Adcock's death A doctor convicted over the death of a six-year-old boy can return to work, a medical tribunal has ruled.
In 2015, Dr Hadiza Bawa-Garba was found guilty of gross negligence manslaughter over the death of Jack Adcock.
She was struck off in 2018 but appealed against the decision and won her bid to be reinstated to the medical register.
The Medical Practitioners Tribunal Service (MPTS) has now ruled Dr Bawa-Garba can return to work, but only under close supervision.
The doctor will resume work - although at a lower grade than she was previously employed at - once she returns from maternity leave in February 2020.
Tribunal chairwoman Claire Sharp said the chance of Dr Bawa-Garba putting another patient at unwarranted risk of harm was low and she had undertaken a "significant" amount of remediation.
However, the tribunal found the doctor's fitness to practise was "impaired" as she had not had face-to-face contact with patients since 2015.
Jack's parents, Nicky and Victor, from Leicestershire, had opposed Dr Bawa-Garba being allowed to practise again.
Giving evidence at the hearing, the doctor apologised to the Adcock family.
Image copyright Adcock family Image caption Jack Adcock died at Leicester Royal Infirmary in 2011 when undiagnosed sepsis led to cardiac arrest In 2011, Jack, who had Down's syndrome and a heart condition, died from a cardiac arrest caused by sepsis 11 hours after being admitted to hospital.
Prosecutors in Dr Bawa-Garba's criminal trial said his death was caused by an incorrect diagnosis and "serious neglect" by staff.
Dr Bawa-Garba's defence said she had worked a 12-hour shift with no break and there was miscommunication on the ward.
The doctor was removed from medical duties ahead of the trial.
She was later given a two-year suspended sentence by the court.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Dr Hadiza Bawa-Garba said she was "sorry for her role" in Jack Adcock's death In 2017 the MPTS suspended her from the medical register for a year, but the General Medical Council appealed against the decision and in January 2018 she was struck off at the High Court.
Dr Bawa-Garba subsequently took her case to the Court of Appeal and in August won her bid to be reinstated.
She is currently serving a suspension until July but wants to return to work full-time in February.
Giving its determination, the MPTS said the doctor had "reflected appropriately" on the events of Jack's death and had undertaken significant steps to remediate concerns identified in 2017.
A number of conditions were put in place on Dr Bawa-Garba's registration, and will be in place for two years from July.
During the hearing, Dr Bawa-Garba said: "I am sorry for my failure to recognise sepsis.
"I apologise for the pain I have caused the family, the pain will live with me for the rest of my life."
Sitting in the public gallery, Mrs Adcock interjected: "Eight years too late."
Speaking after the tribunal, she added: "I don't think she should ever be allowed in a hospital again."
Image copyright PA Image caption Jack's parents Victor and Nicky Adcock attended the tribunal A GMC statement said the process had been "difficult" for the Adcock family.
It added: "'The GMC and Dr Bawa-Garba's representatives both submitted to the medical practitioners tribunal that her fitness to practise remains impaired due to the length of time she has been out of practice.
"It is important the doctor's return to practise is safely managed."
However, Jenny Vaughan, law and policy officer for the Doctors' Association UK, said it was "right" that Dr Bawa-Garba would be allowed to return to work.
She said: "Dr Bawa-Garba was working in appalling conditions that day in an NHS hospital...there is a culture of blame in the NHS at the moment which, if left unchecked, will mean patient safety is not what it should be as staff will be too scared to admit their mistakes."
More on this story A doctor struck off for honest mistakes Follow BBC East Midlands on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Google Image caption The babies had been in the intensive care unit at the Princess Royal Maternity Hospital A third baby has died after contracting a rare blood infection at a maternity hospital in Glasgow.
In January it was revealed that two extremely premature babies had died at the Princess Royal Maternity Hospital.
NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde said the third child was extremely poorly at the time of birth and that a rare strain of Staphylococcus aureus infection was one of a number of factors in the death.
No further patients have tested positive for the infection since March.
A spokesperson for the health board said a total of four babies at the hospital had contracted the infection, but one was successfully treated and was discharged from the hospital.
Staphylococcus aureus is a bacterium that is found on the skin and in the nasal passage of about one in four people, and only causes infection when it enters the body.
It is one of the most common causes of hospital-acquired infections - but the type 11164 strain which infected the babies at the Princess Royal is highly resistant to the two antibiotics that are normally prescribed.
It is also resistant to the skin cleaning agent routinely used in hospitals across the UK.
In January, NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde confirmed that a third child was receiving treatment after also contracting the blood stream infection following the deaths of the two babies.
Skin cleaning agent At the time they set up an incident management team (IMT) to investigate the cases.
An IMT comprises specialist clinicians, infection control doctors and nurses, occupational health clinicians and colleagues from estates and facilities.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde has said the source of the infection may never be known In a statement issued on Wednesday, the health board said: "As previously reported, we have been rigorously managing a number of cases of a rare Staphylococcus aureus blood stream infection in extremely premature babies in the neonatal unit of the Princess Royal Maternity Hospital.
"Three babies, who were extremely poorly due to their very early birth, sadly died and infection was one of a number of contributing causes in their deaths."
Babies born before 28 weeks gestation are described as extremely premature.
The health authority said a programme of staff and family screening was carried out at the hospital as part of a number of steps being taken to respond to the infection.
They added: "As this was an extremely rare strain, which is highly resistant to the two antibiotics normally prescribed for S. Aureus and the skin cleaning agent routinely used in hospitals across the UK, we put in place a number of further infection control measures including the prescribing of different antibiotics and the introduction of a new skin cleaning agent."
The hospital, which has not revealed when the baby died, said that the source of the infection in the intensive care unit may never be known.
Image copyright BSIP Image caption Staphylococcus Aureus is a bacteria commonly found on the skin Timeline
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Mayor Bill de Blasio spells out the dangers New York has declared a public health emergency following a measles outbreak.
The emergency warning covers certain postcodes in Brooklyn.
All residents in the affected areas have been told to get vaccinated or face a fine.
There have been 285 cases in the area since 30 September.
Of those infected, 246 were children, New York health commissioner Oxiris Barbot said.
It is the largest measles outbreak in the city since 1991.
Measles is a highly contagious viral disease that can result in serious health complications, such as pneumonia and swelling of the brain.
In a press conference, Dr Barbot said that of the 285 reported cases, 21 people have been hospitalised and five had been admitted to an intensive care unit.
No deaths have been reported.
Under the order, any person living in the affected areas who has not been vaccinated must be immunised within 48 hours.
Parents of children older than six months must get them vaccinated or show proof of immunisation.
Mayor Bill de Blasio told reporters: "I want everyone to understand how serious this is and how quickly it spreads.
The bottom line is to recognise that this is something that has now become even more urgent.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption BBC Health's Smitha Mundasad explains the outbreak in Rockland In March.
a county in New York state declared a state of emergency following a measles outbreak.
Rockland County banned unvaccinated children from public spaces after 153 cases were confirmed.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Linzi Page: "When you go through this the time with your family is so precious."
Linzi Page thinks her bowel cancer was not diagnosed because doctors do not expect people under 50 to get the disease.
The 36-year-old first went to see her GP in January last year after weeks of "strange" bowel movements and rectal bleeding.
Linzi, from Burntisland in Fife, told BBC Scotland's The Nine that her doctor was "dismissive" and said it was "probably" Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS).
The doctor carried out a routine blood test and stool sample but nothing irregular showed up.
Almost three months later Linzi went to see another doctor and was sent for an "urgent colonoscopy".
Image caption Linzi said she was not diagnosed earlier because of her age At the end of April, she was diagnosed with stage 4 metastatic bowel cancer and has since been given two years' to live.
Linzi, who has two young children, says: "If I had been caught earlier I might be in a much better situation than I am currently.
"I think GPs need to be more aware that people under 50 are getting bowel cancer."
"I spoke to my doctors and I was very frank and I said if I had gone with the same symptoms at 60, they would have sent me for a colonoscopy.
"But the fact I was 35, they just procrastinated and it was not dealt with quickly enough."
In response, NHS Fife said they were unable to comment on the care of individual patients for "reasons of confidentiality".
'Difficult for them' Bowel cancer is Scotland's second biggest cancer killer.
About 3,700 people are diagnosed with the condition every year but only about 200 are under 50 years old.
Claire Donaghy, from Bowel Cancer UK, said it was difficult for GPs to recognise bowel cancer in younger people, particularly given the prevalence of IBS and other conditions.
"Most GPs in their lifetime might only see one person under 50 that has a bowel cancer," she says.
"It is difficult for them."
Ms Donaghy said younger patients needed to be reassured that they probably had nothing to worry about but they should keep a note of their symptoms and go back if they do not improve.
Screening programme Linzi Page says she was "devastated" by her diagnosis.
She has since found that she has tumours on her liver and her cancer has spread to her lungs.
"I was told in December it was incurable and they have given me one to two years to live," Linzi says.
Image caption Linzi called for greater awareness of the condition in the under 50s She is currently trying to raise funds for a drug called Avastin, which is not available on the NHS in Scotland but she hopes can prolong her life.
Linzi would like to see doctors becoming more aware of the risk of bowel cancer among younger people.
The NHS in Scotland currently runs a screening programme for people over 50.
Linzi called for screening to be extended to people under 50 but the Scottish government said there was not enough evidence for lowering the age.
Linzi says she does not want to waste her time complaining about doctors but wants to raise awareness of the condition among younger people.
"My life is really precious to me, my time with my kids is really precious to me," she says.
"It chokes me to think I might not be in my kids' lives.
I can't think about that.
I try to live day by day."
Image copyright Courtesy of the Bentley family Image caption Rose Marie Bentley lived until age 99 unaware of her rare condition A US woman who died at 99 of natural causes unknowingly lived with her organs on the wrong side of her body due to a rare congenital condition.
Rose Marie Bentley, a pet feed store owner who passed away in October 2017, donated her body to research at a university in Portland, Oregon.
Students in an anatomy class were the first to notice many of her organs were not where they were supposed to be.
Despite multiple surgeries, her condition had not been identified.
Doctors are stunned that Mrs Bentley was able to live such a long and healthy life despite her condition.
She had situs inversus with levocardia, which means her liver, stomach and other abdominal organs were reversed right to left - the mirror image of a typical human anatomy.
Her heart, however, remained in the normal position, on the left side of her body.
Image copyright Lynn Kitagawa Image caption The medical illustration on the left shows Mrs Bentley's condition, situs inversus with levocardia where a person's abdominal organs are a mirror image of a typical human anatomy while the illustration on the right shows further abnormalities in Mrs Bentley's cardiovascular cavity The condition is "surpassingly unusual", said Dr Cam Walker, an assistant professor of anatomy at Oregon Health and Science University, who helped students in his class unravel the mystery of Mrs Bentley's body.
Dr Walker told the BBC the discovery began while his students were dissecting the cardiovascular cavity and were unable to locate a major vessel.
The finding started a "cascade effect" as they realised that Mrs Bentley's body was particularly unique.
Situs inversus with levocardia is rare, occurring about once in every 22,000 births.
It is normally associated with life-threatening heart issues and other abnormalities, making Mrs Bentley's long life even more exceptional.
Dr Walker estimates that only one in 50 million people born with this condition live into adulthood.
He and his colleagues believe Mrs Bentley may be the oldest person known to live with this condition.
Scientists are aware of only two other cases where patients reached the age of 70.
"None of my colleagues had ever seen a donor with situs inversus and some of them had been teaching for more than 30 years," Dr Walker said.
"I've never seen anything like that."
"The students, I think, will never forget it," he added.
Image copyright OHSU/Kristyna Wentz-Graff Image caption Dr Cam Walker and Dr Mark Hankin who researched Mrs Bentley's rare case Mrs Bentley lived most of her adult life in Oregon, near the rural north-western town of Molalla.
She owned and operated the Bentley Feed Store with her husband.
Louise Allee, one of Mr and Mrs Bentley's five children, told the Oregon Health and Science University that her mother would love the attention her rare case is receiving.
"My mom would think this was so cool", Ms Allee said.
Mrs Bentley's children told the university that she lived a very healthy life, without any chronic conditions except for arthritis.
She had had three surgeries, but only the doctor who removed her appendix noted its atypical location in her body.
Both Mr and Mrs Bentley decided to donate their bodies to the Oregon Health and Science University body donation programme, after reading a poem by Robert Noel Test about remembering departed loved ones.
"She would probably get a big smile on her face", said Ms Allee to the university.
"Knowing that she was different, but made it through."
Image copyright Getty Images There has been a "steep rise" in the number of people struggling to get hold of medication which helps control their seizures, the Epilepsy Society says.
The charity says "anxiety and stress" are putting patients at greater risk of seizures.
It is calling for the government to commission an urgent review of the medicines supply chain.
Although uncertainties around Brexit have highlighted medicine shortages, there has been a problem for years.
Last week the drug company Sanofi said there were shortages of an epilepsy drug, sodium valproate or Epilim, in some areas because of supply disruption at a factory last year, and not related to Brexit.
The company added that the situation was improving.
A Department of Health and Social Care spokesperson said: "As Sanofi has made clear, these issues are unrelated to our exit from the EU and they have followed the well-established processes we have to manage the small number of supply problems that may arise at any one time."
'Not good enough' The Epilepsy Society said rising numbers of people had been contacting the charity's helpline worried about getting hold of medication.
Other drugs causing most concern for patients with epilepsy are: Epanutin (phenytoin) Topamax (topiramate) Neurontin (gabapentin) Carbagen (carbamazepine) Diazepam (rectal diazepam) Clare Pelham, chief executive of the Epilepsy Society said: "It is simply not good enough for drugs manufacturers to say 'production issues' or 'just-in-time manufacture problems' and shrug their shoulders whenever a shortage occurs.
"Surely the least that we can do - government, charities and the pharmaceutical industry - is to work together to ensure that the supply of this essential medication is reliable every day, and every month - year in and year out.
"So that when the Brexit spotlight has moved on, people with epilepsy will be in a much better place."
Epilepsy is a common serious neurological condition which affects more than half a million people in the UK.
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Naproxen is on a list of drugs affected by price rises and supply shortages At the same time, a leading pharmaceutical group has said there are increasing problems obtaining some medicines in England.
The number of drugs on a list of those affected by price rises and supply shortages is at the highest level since records were first compiled in 2014.
This consists of drugs where the government agrees to compensate pharmacists for higher costs.
In March there were 96 medicines on the list, known as price concessions - double the number last autumn.
'Increasing supply problems' The Pharmaceutical Services Negotiating Committee (PSNC) warned MPs in December that there were supply shortages due to several factors, including Brexit contingency planning.
The Committee indicates the situation has become more acute since then.
While noting that there have always been fluctuations in the number of medicines which are in short supply, PSNC chief executive Simon Dukes added: "Community pharmacies are reporting increasing problems sourcing some generic medicines for their patients."
The government told the pharmaceutical industry to build up stockpiles of six weeks' supply of medicines, as part of contingency planning for a no-deal Brexit.
Other measures - including the chartering of ferries and aircraft - have been adopted by officials.
A Department of Health spokesperson said: "We are confident that, if everyone does what they need to do, the supply of medicines should be uninterrupted in the event of a no-deal."
Image copyright SPL Using electricity to precisely stimulate the brain can boost people's working memory, a study suggests.
The team at Boston University, in the US, gave people in their sixties and seventies the working memory of someone in their twenties.
The effect lasted at least 50 minutes after the stimulation stopped.
But larger studies are now needed to see if stimulation could help people in the "real world" or in treating brain diseases like Alzheimer's.
What is working memory?
Working memory is where your mind keeps temporary information, and has been described as the "sketch pad of the mind".
You need your working memory to write down a phone number as someone reads it out to you.
Problem-solving, mathematical calculations and decision-making all involve working memory too.
Robert Reinhart, an assistant professor at Boston University, and one of the researchers, says: "It's essentially where consciousness lives."
Working memory is different to long-term memory, which is how you recall your first day at school, wedding day, childhood pet etc.
But working memory declines naturally with age.
But can it be boosted?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The research tried to coordinate people's brainwaves.
The study, published in Nature Neuroscience, took 42 people in their twenties, and 42 in their sixties or seventies.
They played a glorified game of spot-the-difference between two images shown one after the other.
The young adults were faster and more accurate without any brain stimulation.
But the older adults' performance improved with brain stimulation.
Dr Reinhart said: "We can bring back the more superior working memory function that you had when you were much younger.
"This is important because the global population is rapidly ageing, and the elderly struggle with many real-world activities that critically rely on their memories."
These included "recognizing human faces, navigating the physical environment, remembering to take their medication and making financial decisions", he said.
How does the stimulation work?
The researchers were focused on brainwaves in two regions of the brain involved in working memory - the temporal and prefrontal brain regions.
"The brain is like a conductor of an orchestra, and it's using low frequency rhythms [brainwaves] to communicate information," says Dr Reinhart.
But the study showed that brainwaves become out of sync - like musicians giving a disjointed performance - as we age.
The team at Boston University started by recording people's brainwaves with an electroencephalogram.
They used electricity stimulation - specifically high definition transcranial alternating current - to strengthen and resynchronise the brainwaves.
Does this really work?
The researchers and other scientists want to see the experiments repeated with larger groups of people in order to be certain of the results.
The other issue is whether the kind of boost reported in this study would make a meaningful difference in people's day-to-day lives.
And it is uncertain how long any benefit lasts, as the study only tested people for up to 50 minutes.
To be useful in real life would need either a long-term benefit or a way of making the technology portable.
Do we dare discuss dementia?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The researchers hope brain stimulation will eventually be used for a range of neurological disorders.
The research was conducted only in healthy people, so it is impossible to draw conclusions about diseases like Alzheimer's.
The researchers hope that one day brain stimulation will find a role in a range of brain disorders from dementia to autism and ADHD to epilepsy.
The Alzheimer's Society welcomed the report: "Altering and correcting the circuitry of the brain with technology is a new exciting avenue of research for dementia."
Can I cheat in exams?
The technology has only been tested for restoring lost ability, but could the same approach be used for enhancement?
Dr Reinhart says: "I think it is possible to sort of turbocharge even normal, healthy, cognitive functioning people, including young people.
"But the largest improvements appear in the people with the greatest deficit at baseline... people who are struggling the most."
What do the experts think?
Dorothy Bishop, a professor of developmental neuropsychology from the University of Oxford, says: "It would be premature to extrapolate the findings to everyday functioning in individuals with clinically significant memory problems.
"There is no indication that any beneficial effects of stimulation persist beyond the experimental session.
"Considerably more research would need to be done before concluding that this method had clinical application."
Follow James on Twitter.
Image copyright Getty Images People with asthma are being encouraged to use "greener" inhalers by the NHS, if it is suitable for them.
Around 70% of inhalers used in the UK are the types that have high levels of greenhouse gases - compared to around 10% in Sweden The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence says "environmentally-friendly" dry powder inhalers contain 25 times less pollutants.
The guidance says not everyone would be able to use them, but more could.
This is the first time NICE has addressed the carbon footprint of a medicine.
It is a reaction to the 10-year NHS plan published earlier this year, which recommended a greater emphasis on environmentally-friendly approaches in the health service.
Wide variation in carbon footprint of inhalers Some inhalers - called metered dose inhalers - contain propellants known as hydrofluorocarbons to deliver the medicine quickly to the patient during an asthma attack.
These have an estimated carbon footprint of 500g carbon dioxide equivalent per dose.
It means five doses from one is the equivalent of a nine-mile trip in a typical car.
By comparison, dry powder inhalers have 20g carbon dioxide equivalent per dose, but are only recommended for people who have milder attacks.
More than 5 million people use inhalers across the UK.
Prof Gillian Leng, from NICE, said patients need to talk to health staff about what inhalers are best for them.
"People who need to use metered dose inhalers should absolutely continue to do so, but if you have the choice of a green option - do think about the environment.
"Cutting carbon emissions is good news for everyone, especially those with respiratory conditions."
Dr Samantha Walker, of Asthma UK, said: "If anyone is thinking about changing their inhaler or needs advice, we recommend that they visit their GP or asthma nurse."
At 29, Ellie Finch Hulme was diagnosed with a condition often associated with much older people - Parkinson's disease.
She decided it wasn't going to stop her living her life the way she wanted to.
Ellie doesn't fit the stereotype of someone with Parkinson's disease, as one of her recent tweets makes clear.
People are often shocked when they meet her for the first time, she says.
"I volunteer in a local charity shop occasionally around the kids and around my work and if I'm trembling, if I have to wrap something up - because anything can set off your tremor - someone will say something like, 'Is it your first day here?'
And I'll be like, 'No I've got Parkinson's.'"
They expect someone with Parkinson's to be white-haired and stooping, but Ellie, who lives in Farnham in Surrey, has young onset (or early onset) Parkinson's disease, and was diagnosed before she was 30.
How people react A survey of more than 2,000 people for Parkinson's UK, to mark World Parkinson's day, found that 87% of people with the condition had faced discrimination or harassment.
24% of people had been told they were "too young" to have Parkinson's 22% said their slurred speech or poor balance had been mistaken for drunkenness 32% said their less expressive facial expressions had been mistaken for unfriendliness 10% said they had been laughed at More than half (57%) said they had avoided or cancelled social situations because of concerns about how others would react to them.
For more information see Parkinson's Is She first experienced symptoms when she was training for a half marathon in 2012.
At first it was just a tremor in her left little finger, then her left leg started to go from under her as she ran.
Her GP suspected the problem was something called "essential tremor", a movement disorder, but Ellie wasn't convinced.
After seeing a neurologist in April 2013 she underwent a series of scans and tests and was finally diagnosed with the condition that August.
Image caption Ellie became engaged to her boyfriend, Tom, a month after her first appointment with a neurologist By coincidence, in her work as a translator Ellie had been working on a text about one of the scans she herself was given.
This led her to suspect she had Parkinson's before it was confirmed.
"I had a feeling that that's what it would be.
But a lot of my friends were like, 'No, don't get ahead of yourself, it won't be that, it can't be that.'"
Ellie says it took a long time to accept that she had Parkinson's but one of the hardest experiences was having to break the news to friends and relatives.
"I think it was more difficult for friends and family to accept than it really was for me," she says.
Ellie and her fiance, Tom, had already planned to marry the following March and soon after returning from their honeymoon, Ellie realised she was pregnant.
Image copyright Matthew Quake "That was intentional," she says.
"We knew we wanted to have kids and we wanted to do it sooner rather than later.
In no way was I prepared to sacrifice that because of this condition."
Not many people with Parkinson's disease become pregnant.
Although a third of people with the condition get it before the age of 65, only one in 20 get it below the age of 45, and only one in 100 below the age of 40, according to Prof Huw Morris, consultant neurologist at the Royal Free Hospital and professor of clinical neuroscience at University College London.
The symptoms - slower movements, stiffness and sometimes tremors - are caused by a loss of nerve cells in the brain, and a reduction in the amount of dopamine, the chemical in the brain that helps with movement.
Treatment for Parkinson's therefore includes dopamine replacement.
"We think that Levodopa, the main dopamine treatment, is probably safe in pregnancy, but it's difficult to know that," says Huw Morris.
Ellie says she felt extremely anxious throughout the whole of her pregnancy, even though the dose of her medication was reduced.
"It was scary.
I was pretty concerned," she says.
"I just didn't know how the drugs were going to affect the foetus at all."
In January 2015, Ellie went into labour on the day of her baby shower and gave birth to a son called Charlie three weeks early.
She took the decision not to breastfeed Charlie because of the risk that the drugs would be passed to him through her breast milk - she was told this was higher than the risk of them reaching the foetus had been.
"I found that absolutely heartbreaking," she says.
"I always thought that I would breastfeed and I was not able to and it took a long time to get over that."
By this stage Ellie had a tremor in her left arm and hand, which made it harder to bottle feed her son.
Holding him on her left side she would bottle feed him with her right hand, but it wasn't easy to keep her arm in a comfortable position - especially when she was doing it in public.
"Bath time was a bit scary," she says.
"But I used to do that when my husband was there."
Ellie also struggled with some of the fiddlier baby clothes, such as doing up the poppers on Babygros or getting zips up.
She buys shoes with Velcro fastenings to avoid problems with laces.
Twenty-two months after Charlie was born, in November 2016, Ellie gave birth to her daughter, Sophie.
"We were like, 'Let's just go for it, because I'm not going to get any better, so therefore it's probably better to just get through a second pregnancy sooner rather than later.'
But obviously not too soon."
She says her reaction to having two small children was probably the same as any parent's.
"It's quite kind of, 'Wow!'
A lot of things to deal with, like getting my son weaned off his dummy and then starting his potty training.
And obviously, having a newborn, it's a lot to cope with.
But it's a lot for any parent," she says.
"I've tried not to let having Parkinson's really affect any of what I was doing with the kids when they were little."
Ellie says her children know that she takes medication and her son, now four, has started to ask some questions.
"As he gets older and he's able to understand, and his empathy builds as he grows, I think that it will be easier for me to say, 'This is what doesn't work properly,'" she says.
"But they've never once said to me, 'Mummy, why do you shake?'"
The speed at which the disease develops tends to be slower in people with early onset Parkinson's, says Huw Morris.
Treatments are very effective, he says, but there is nothing that can stop it in its tracks.
Like Ellie, the actor Michael J Fox was diagnosed with young onset Parkinson's at the age of 29, and he's still acting occasionally in his late 50s.
Ellie says her hopes for the future are mostly the same as any person with children.
"I hope that my children understand all my decisions and the choice that my husband and I made to have them - and I'm pretty sure they will," she says.
"I do hope that I won't be a burden on them, that they won't see it like that, because one day I'll probably need to be cared for, and that's really quite difficult to say, to be honest."
Help and information: NHS: Parkinson's disease Parkinson's UK NICE: Parkinson's disease The Cure Parkinson's Trust National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke Ellie says she does not spend each day wondering, 'What's my life going to be like?'
but takes each day as it comes.
"I think that's the best way to be, to be positive and don't worry about what the future holds, either positive or negative, because you could get run over by a bus tomorrow and it would be totally unrelated to Parkinson's.
It's just not worth worrying about."
Ellie says it is frustrating people tend to associate Parkinson's with just one thing - tremors - and are unaware of other symptoms.
"I do have a lot of stiffness in my hand," she says.
"So at times when my medicine's wearing off I just can't raise my arm for example and my hand is completely stiff.
People don't realise that is one of the main symptoms - and pain as well, and cramps."
Rates of anxiety and depression are also higher in people with young onset Parkinson's disease, according to Huw Morris.
Ellie says the things that have helped her most with her condition are continuing to do plenty of exercise, connecting with other young people who live with Parkinson's and avoiding the temptation to compare herself to others - because each person is different.
It's impossible to know whether her condition will progress faster, slower or at the same speed as someone else's.
"It's not like a death sentence," says Ellie.
"Hopefully I'll live a fulfilled life with this condition for many years."
All photographs courtesy of Ellie Finch Hulme, unless otherwise indicated.
Ellie writes a blog about what life is like as a young mum with Parkinson's disease called PD Mama You may also be interested in: When Sarah Hill's eight-year-old son complained of aching legs, her GP told her not to worry.
But it was one of the first signs Alex had Parkinson's disease.
Read: 'My son was diagnosed with Parkinson's at the age of 11' See also: Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Just a little bit of me is hoping something wonderful will happen Tom Isaacs was diagnosed with Parkinson's aged 27.
And for 17 years he's been desperate to find a cure.
Now along with 41 others he's volunteered for a ground-breaking medical trial of a drug called GDNF.
Will this be the miracle that millions of Parkinson's patients around the world have been waiting for?
Viewers in the UK can watch the second part of the two-part documentary The Parkinson's Drug Trial: A Miracle Cure?
on the iPlayer - until midnight on 11 April 2019.
Join the conversation - find us on Facebook, Instagram, YouTube and Twitter.
Image copyright Pixar The former president of Pixar and Walt Disney Animation Studios says he has a "blind mind's eye".
Most people can close their eyes and conjure up images inside their head such as counting sheep or imagining the face of a loved one.
But Ed Catmull, 74, has the condition aphantasia, in which people cannot visualise mental images at all.
And in a surprising survey of his former employees, so do some of the world's best animators.
Ed revolutionised 3D graphics, and the method he developed for animating curved surfaces became the industry standard.
He first realised his brain was different when trying to perform Tibetan meditation with a colleague.
Visualisation is a core part of the practice and he was told to picture a sphere in front of him.
Ed told the BBC: "I went home, closed my eyes I couldn't see a thing and for an entire week I kept trying to visualise this sphere."
He spoke to colleagues and learned that some animators could form mental images so strong they would open their eyes and the image would still be there, so they could practically trace what they could see.
Ed just thought: "That's interesting, it's probably what makes them an artist."
Glen Keane But eventually Ed realised he was not alone and that, perhaps counter-intuitively, some of the greatest talents in animation could not visualise either.
Oscar-winner Glen Keane, who created Ariel (The Little Mermaid), also has no visual imagery.
Ed told the BBC: "He is truly extraordinary, he's one of the best animators in the history of hand-drawn animation.
"[And] he said that he could never visualise either."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Glen Keane (right) won the Oscar for Best Animated Short Film for Dear Basketball, alongside former NBA star Kobe Bryant.
Image copyright Walt Disney, Glen Keane Image caption Glen Keane's early sketch of Ariel, the Little Mermaid.
Image copyright Walt Disney, Glen Keane Image caption Ariel in more recognisable form.
Ed said: "When he first did The Little Mermaid, it's a bunch of scribbles.
"And then it converges, after he works on it for a while, into this gorgeous piece of art.
"And as far as he's concerned, that's the right way to work because it means he's looking deep down inside, for his emotions, and that's what drives his drawing."
Origins of aphantasia The term aphantasia was coined by Prof Adam Zeman, from the University of Exeter Medical School, in 2015.
He had documented a case of a man who lost his mind's eye in his 60s following a heart operation.
Prof Zeman was then contacted by people who reported never having one and he described the condition as aphantasia in the journal Cortex.
Around one in 50 people is thought to have aphantasia, although exactly what is going on in the brain is still unclear.
Parts of the brain from the frontal and parietal lobes are involved in visualisation and differences at any point in the system could be the cause.
Pixar findings Image copyright Shutterstock Ed, who co-founded Pixar, had a parting gift for his former employees when he left last year - a piece of homework.
He asked 540 members of staff to take a test of the vividness of their visual imagery.
He sorted the results into: All staff Technical artists - who have a strong background in computer programming as well as artistry Artists - the animators, film designers or storyboard artists Production managers - often people out of film school who organise the production It showed that the artists were slightly better than technical artists at visualising, but the differences were not that huge.
"It was not a large skew, that's the real issue," said Ed.
The production managers were better than both.
The homework also revealed stark differences between two artists and good friends of Ed's who had worked on Frozen.
One can see an entire movie in his head and play it backwards and forwards and never needs to see a movie twice because he can visualise it.
The other cannot see anything at all.
Lessons from aphantasia Some people with aphantasia find it a cause of distress.
People have described feeling isolated and alone after discovering that other people could see images in their heads and they could not.
Ed argues aphantasia is not a barrier to success.
He told the BBC: "I think the main message is, 'OK folks you can't use it as an excuse, you can still do good work, regardless of your differences'."
And believes the study clears up misperceptions about the creativity.
He added: "People had conflated visualisation with creativity and imagination and one of the messages is, 'they're not the same thing'.
"The other one I think that people might have assumed, but if you think about it you can see why it's false assumption, is you would think if a person could visualise, they're more likely to be able to draw.
"If you open your eyes and you take out a pencil and pad, how many people can draw what they see?
The answer is a very small number, so if you can't draw what is in front of you then why would we expect that you would be able to draw what you visualise?"
Discovering he has aphantasia has also led to some insight into Ed's personal life, because his wife has very strong visual imagery.
He can remember their first date was in a park on the other side of the freeway and that is it.
She can describe the whole area.
Prof Zeman, who has led research in the field of aphantasia, said: "I think it's really helpful for people to know that the way they visualise - or not - doesn't define them.
"Although we all have different thought processes, that doesn't link with the quality of what you produce.
"We just all go about it in different ways."
If you think you have aphantasia or hyperphantasia and would like to be involved in Prof Zeman's research he is happy to be contacted at a.zeman@exeter.ac.uk Follow James on Twitter.
What are the benefits?
For all children, the benefits of engaging in regular physical activity are well-established.
Focus is often cast on physical benefits such as improved cardio-vascular fitness, reduced risk of becoming overweight or obese, and increased bone and muscle strength.
These are especially important for children with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities (SEND) who, in general, experience poorer physical health outcomes than other children of the same age.
There is also evidence pointing towards a relationship between physical activity and improved mental well-being, the development of problem solving skills, and increased concentration and academic achievement among children with SEND.
When children with SEND engage in physical activity in groups, especially when those groups include children without SEND, they have been found to develop important life skills like verbal and non-verbal communication, sharing and the ability to make and keep friends.
These skills are crucial in later life for developing strong and supportive social networks, gaining employment and living independently.
Inclusion 'Inclusive' physical activities, whereby children with and without SEND participate with and against each other, are beneficial to all children.
For instance, research suggests that there are significant social benefits for children without SEND, such as increased tolerance to individual differences, greater awareness and sensitivity to human diversity and the needs of others.
Therefore, the onus should be on physical activity providers to deliver inclusive physical activities, whether that be in school, club or other settings.
Studies have shown that children with SEND participate less frequently and in a narrower range of physical activities than other children of the same age.
While the reasons for this are complex and can differ from child-to-child, research suggests that some of the main issues relate to attitudes to 'including' children with SEND among teachers, coaches and other children; a lack of specialist knowledge, skills and confidence to teach and coach children with SEND; schools, leisure facilities and clubs being inappropriately resourced to provide physical activity opportunities to children with SEND; and a lack of accessible information about opportunities to engage in physical activity in local communities.
Good practice Fortunately, there is a growing number of organisations that are doing excellent work to ensure that children with SEND have the opportunities to develop physical activity habits that last a lifetime.
School, whether that be a special or mainstream setting, is an ideal context for children to engage in physical activity through formal, structured physical education lessons, and lunchtime and after school clubs.
More recently, attempts have been made to encourage parents and children to abandon their cars and build physical activity into their travel to and from school plans.
Playground markings and 'the daily mile' are also being used by schools to encourage physical activity engagement during break time.
Here, success will depend on the extent to which these opportunities are aligned to the specific needs and capabilities of the children.
'One size fits all' approaches are mostly ineffective ways of increasing physical activity participation levels among children with SEND.
Therefore, it is vital that those delivering physical activity to children with SEND have the appropriate knowledge, skills, experience and confidence to do so.
The Youth Sport Trust (YST), which is a national children's charity committed to ensuring that every child can enjoy the benefits associated with physical activity, is one of many organisations working in partnership with schools.
Through its Lead Inclusion School Network, the YST provides training, advice and guidance to school leaders about the development of provision aimed at ensuring that children with SEND can engage and participate in regular physical activity.
This is part of a broader attempt to upskill primary school teachers in particular, many of whom are not physical education nor SEND or inclusion experts.
Given that childhood is crucial for establishing positive (or negative) habits, primary school teachers are one group who play an important role in shaping the physical activity participation tendencies of children with SEND.
The training of teachers and coaches is vital.
Teachers and coaches should receive awareness training about the benefits of children with and without SEND participating in physical activities together.
Moreover, through appropriate training teachers and coaches need to understand and be able to apply principles of inclusion through the modification and adaptation of physical activities to suit the needs and capabilities of all children.
Here, a 'capabilities' approach is essential when working with children with SEND.
For far too long we have focused on understanding what children with SEND cannot do, and how to meet their needs.
While this is useful, so too is casting light on what these children are good at.
Child-centred approach Like all children, it is important that those with SEND are stretched and challenged so that they can fulfil their sporting and physical activity potential.
To achieve this, a child-centred approach is required.
Children with SEND should be involved in decisions that shape their lives.
After all, these children know and understand their needs and capabilities much more than an adult without SEND.
Involving children in this way has been found to increase motivation, engagement, self-esteem, and feelings of self-worth among children with SEND.
Parents Parental involvement is also crucial.
Parents act as role models to children.
Children with SEND, like all children, are more likely to be physically active outside of school if their parents are.
After all, parents are often the ones that find opportunities for their children to be physically active, pay any associated costs, and act as taxi driver.
Therefore, engaging in physical activity outside of school as a family is important.
Going to the park for a walk, to woodlands or forests to play, or joining local clubs or leisure centres are a few ways in which families of children with SEND can engage in physical activity together.
The BBC has teamed up with the Premier League to create 'Super Movers', which aims to inspire primary school children to become more physically active.
If you are looking for opportunities for your child to join a local club, the Parasport and BBC's Get Inspired 'club finders' are useful starting points.
Boccia, goalball and wheelchair dance are just a few examples of activities with a particular emphasis on inclusion.
Alternatively, the Activity Alliance deliver inclusive sporting events.
Image copyright reddit/u/Icy9kills Image caption Reddit user Icy9kills both amazed and angered users of a reddit thread with this image When Icy9kills uploaded a picture of a frame spotted at their aunt's house to Reddit, they may have expected weird and wonderful visceral reactions were to come.
And with the title on the post being "My aunt framed my cousin's umbilical cord and shaped it as a heart", the other Redditers did not fail to show their shock and fascination with the artistic effort.
In a pregnant woman, the umbilical cord joins the foetus to the placenta - the organ responsible for providing oxygen and nutrients, and removing waste substances.
While traditionally it tends to be removed as a waste product after the birthing process, it appears as though umbilical cord art has a cult following among new mothers.
Images are available for inspiration, observation and perturbation across all major social platforms.
Indeed in 2017, The Saturdays singer and television presenter Rochelle Humes revealed she had turned her baby's umbilical cord into art.
On Reddit though, the reaction was generally a negative one with user commenting: "Yeah I remember cleaning out some old wardrobes and we found my brother's umbilical cord.
It literally crumbled like a coffee cake.
It was absolutely foul."
While AronJanet42 wrote: "My mom has my umbilical cord, hair from my first haircut and baby teeth.
She even has the tooth I knocked out while drunk at 19.
Not sure if it's for a clone or for voodoo but something's coming".
A lot of the conversation then veered around placentas and preserving those, with even some querying about whether this was cannibalism.
The general consensus on that though was a no, it is not.
You may also be interested in: Rachel Galvan decided to make a necklace out of her son Isaiah's cord and nails, and told the BBC her bespoke jewellery is "odd but treasured".
Image copyright Rachel Galvan Image caption Isaiah Asher's umbilical cord and newborn nails in necklace format "I gave birth at 18 while at university and it was a very hard endeavour.
It was an unexpected pregnancy, which was a shock to my family, friends, and college.
"I did not tell a single soul except my then boyfriend - now husband - about the life growing inside me until my ninth month of pregnancy."
Rachel remembered her mum fainting, her dad crying, her friends gossiping and she said everything just seemed to fall apart.
However, she completed her university exams and said the whole process was a learning curve.
"My boy is wonderfully made and I believe we are specially made for each other.
He is a gift and the necklace is a constant reminder he has changed my life and the people surrounding me.
"What better use of his body parts than to create something so beautiful out of this rather than it just staying in a baby book forever leaving it to disintegrate?
Produced by Dhruti Shah and Victoria Park, UGC Hub, BBC News
Image copyright Getty Images Measles is one of the world's most infectious illnesses but until recently cases had been declining.
So what's led to recent outbreaks?
Rockland County, in New York state, declared a state of emergency last week following a severe re-emergence of the preventable virus.
It's far from an isolated case, with the US already on course this year to see the most measles cases since 2000, when the disease was officially eliminated.
Other countries, such as Mexico, France and Madagascar, have seen similar outbreaks in communities with gaps in immunity.
In most cases, measles is relatively minor but it can also lead to potentially life-threatening complications such as pneumonia, meningitis and brain inflammation.
Although still far below historical levels, the disease has been on the rise for several years.
Reported cases rose by 31% in 2017 on the year before, leading to about 110,000 deaths worldwide.
According to Unicef, 98 countries reported an increase in measles cases in 2018, with almost three-quarters of these occurring in 10 countries.
What's happening to vaccinations?
Successful vaccination programmes have ensured measles has become rare in many places.
When a measles vaccine became widely used in the 1980s, cases fell significantly, eventually leading some countries to declare it had been eliminated.
Before then, large epidemics of measles occurred every few years.
For example, in 1967, the year before measles vaccine was introduced in England and Wales, there were almost half a million reported cases and 99 deaths.
By 1998, this had fallen to an all-time low of 56 cases and no deaths.
So what accounts for the alarming recent increases?
A vaccination target of 95% creates "herd immunity" in a community, to prevent this highly infectious disease from spreading.
All the measles outbreaks have taken hold in areas where there is not enough immunity but the reasons behind this differ from place to place.
The high-profile anti-vaccination movement has become influential in parts of the US and Europe.
Despite overwhelming scientific evidence supporting vaccination, "anti-vaxxers" can believe vaccines are unnecessary or harmful.
They sometimes embrace conspiracy theories around "big pharma" and are distrustful of government.
In the UK, a scare over the safety of the measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine, following now discredited research, had a major impact for a time.
In 2004, first-dose MMR coverage fell to 80% in England and 78% in Wales Two decades on, uptake has recovered, with over 90% of UK two-year-olds receiving the vaccine in 2017-18.
But many adolescents and young adults not given the MMR as infants are now catching measles.
We may also see future outbreaks of rubella - German measles - in this age group, a particular concern as they reach childbearing age.
Usually a mild disease, rubella can be catastrophic if caught in the early stages of pregnancy, causing serious vision, hearing, heart and learning problems in the unborn baby.
Beyond 'anti-vaxxers' In other countries, reasons behind falling vaccination rates are very different.
In Ukraine, for example, public trust in vaccination was severely shaken in 2008, following the death of a teenager after a measles vaccination, which, although unconnected, led the government to halt the vaccination campaign.
By 2016, in a situation made worse by political unrest, health service corruption and vaccine shortages, Ukraine had one of the lowest uptakes of measles vaccine in the world, with only one in three of six-year-old children protected with two doses of vaccine.
Although over 90% of six-year-olds are now protected, the reservoir of young people left unprotected has allowed measles to take hold.
The country has become a hotspot for measles, with 54,000 cases in 2018, compared with about 5,000 in the previous year.
Immunity levels have also fallen in countries where the health system has collapsed, such as Yemen, which is in the midst of civil war, and Venezuela, which tackling a serious economic crisis.
This can have knock-on effects on other countries too, such as in Brazil, which has experienced mass migration from Venezuela.
What is measles?
Measles is a highly infectious virus spread in droplets from coughs, sneezes or direct contact It can hang in the air or remain on surfaces for hours Measles often starts with fever, feeling unwell, sore eyes and a cough followed by a rising fever and rash At its mildest, measles makes children feel very miserable, with recovery in seven-10 days - but complications, including ear infections, seizures, diarrhoea, pneumonia and brain inflammation, are common The disease is more severe in the very young, in adults and in people with immunity problems Measles is still a major cause of child death in many low-income countries, although the measles vaccine is thought to have prevented more than 20 million deaths in 2000-17 How are countries responding to these outbreaks?
Some countries are moving toward mandatory vaccination and many more have tightened up existing requirements.
Italy and France have extended existing requirements with fines and restricted school attendance.
And Germany is currently discussing making measles vaccine mandatory.
In New York's Rockland County, unvaccinated children have been banned from public places for 30 days.
But it is difficult to see how this could be effectively enforced and there is little evidence that mandatory vaccination is always the best approach.
Those determined to not vaccinate will find a way round the system, for example by home-schooling or paying a fine.
Meanwhile, parents on the fence about vaccination may become more resistant if they feel they are not being given a choice.
A better solution may be the opportunity to have a conversation with a health professional to respond to their concerns.
More like this Meanwhile, checking vaccination status on entry to nursery and then to school would act as a useful reminder to parents and reinforce their importance.
As most under-immunisation results from difficulties accessing services, tailored immunisation services would also be helpful.
For example, an innovative response to a measles outbreak in the London borough of Hackney was the "spotty bus" - a mobile immunisation unit that toured the neighbourhood, parking in school playgrounds and supermarket car parks, vaccinating almost 1,000 children whose parents simply needed easier access to immunisation services.
It is not enough for health services to expect parents to come to them.
Taking a proactive approach and offering these kinds of easily accessible vaccine programmes would help to prevent further outbreaks.
Since the global fall in vaccination rates mainly stems from practical or logistical issues, it is often more important to have an everything in place for a successful vaccination programme.
This means having enough vaccines to go around, via services that are well organised, easy to access and supported by government efforts to increase public trust in vaccination.
About this piece This analysis piece was commissioned by the BBC from an expert working for an outside organisation.
Helen Bedford is a professor of children's health at University College London.
You can follow her on Twitter here.
Edited by Eleanor Lawrie
Image copyright Getty Images The morning after pill has never been more accessible.
Women in the UK are now able to order emergency contraception online for home delivery.
It marks a milestone - less than two decades ago, it was not possible to buy it in pharmacies.
Medicine historian Dr Jesse Olszynko-Gryn said there were parallels between the journey of the morning-after pill and home-pregnancy tests, as both have moved from "medically controlled to increasingly available".
When the first over-the-counter pregnancy test was launched in 1971 - (it involved a test tube in which a woman had to mix her urine and wait two hours) - it was "controversial", said Dr Olszynko-Gryn, from the University of Strathclyde.
"Conservative doctors wrote to MPs, they thought it should be regulated.
They thought doctors should do it."
Until the mid-1960s in Britain, pregnancy tests were done by sending a woman's urine to a lab, where it would be injected into a toad.
The toad was checked two hours later and if it had laid eggs, the woman was pregnant.
Image copyright Audrey Peattie Image caption Pregnancy testing with toads in the early 1950s at the NHS laboratory in Watford.
Audrey injects a toad with urine from a possibly pregnant woman But even after home tests were created, well into the 1970s and 80s a lot of women still preferred to go to their GPs or chemists for tests, said Dr Olszynko-Gryn.
"It didn't come along and transform the experience of women overnight," said Dr Olszynko-Gryn, adding that it was only in the 1990s - after the first plastic-stick tests were launched - that home testing became the "new normal".
Now "people don't think twice" about home pregnancy tests, he said.
Women are also choosing to use different contraceptives than they were a decade ago, said the Family Planning Association.
Longer-term contraception - such as implants, injections and the intrauterine device (coil) - "have experienced a surge in popularity over the last 10 years due to a push by sexual health services", a representative for the sexual health charity said.
But the contraceptive pill still remains the most popular option.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption More women are choosing the contraceptive implant than they were a decade ago The FPA said the last 30 years have seen many changes to contraception, including improvements to oral contraceptive pills, the release of the contraceptive vaginal ring, and the introduction of the C-Card that allows young people to access free condoms.
But, it added: "In the last decade, reproductive and sexual health services became the responsibility of local authorities rather than the NHS.
"Since 2014, public health funding has seen significant cuts of 700m.
Although teen pregnancy rates are significantly lower now than they were 20 years ago, it is becoming more difficult to access contraception."
It said that according to research in 2016, only about one in 50 GPs was able to offer patients the full range of methods of contraception.
What's next for contraception?
"I think we have come really far... but most of our methods are largely variations on old things," said Clare Murphy, from the British Pregnancy Advisory Service.
"We find different modes of delivering the old hormones in a new way, not genuinely ground-breaking and new."
Despite discussions over the possibility of creating a pill for men, Ms Murphy said it "is just not going to happen".
The FPA also says new methods of contraception for men "are still some way from being publicly available".
Ms Murphy's BPAS research has suggested women would be very interested in a once-monthly pill that you would only take if you missed your period to disrupt an implanted egg - but this would be classed as abortion under law.
For now, BPAS would like to see the morning after pill become easier to access - by costing less and being able to pick up off the shelf, without a mandatory consultation.
The purpose of the consultation is to assess how likely it will work, says the Faculty of Sexual and Reproductive Healthcare.
It welcomed the new delivery service from EllaOne - but said it should be cheaper so more can access it.
But she said it was "so bound up with conversations about women's sexuality and irresponsibility".
"We have come a long way, but there's a long way to go even with the existing methods."
Fish bladders and Coca-Cola: What contraception used to be like The history of contraception stretches back thousands of years, with people eating bees or the inside of male deer horns in the hope it would prevent pregnancy.
The oldest form of birth control still practised today is the withdrawal method, according to the FPA.
Aside from that, for centuries women have put acids from fruit, jellies and pastes into their vaginas to prevent conception.
Small sponges or half a squeezed lemon were also used in the 18th Century, according to Vienna's Museum of Contraception and Abortion.
Meanwhile, vaginal douching was another popular method dating back hundreds of years - with the household bidet serving this purpose in middle class homes, the Museum of Contraception said.
Image copyright Museum of Contraception and Abortion , Vienna Image caption Vaginal douching - or rinsing - was a popular method dating back to the 1600s, which lasted into the 20th Century And even as late as the mid-20th century, after intercourse women reportedly shook bottles of Coca Cola before opening them in the vagina, in a bid to rinse out any sperm.
Later research showed that it did not work.
The first latex condoms were available in the 1930s, replacing those made from rubber - and before that, fish bladders and sheep intestines.
Image copyright Getty Images And the contraceptive pill became available on the NHS in 1961.
The doses were high - with each pill roughly equivalent to seven of the pills in packs today, said the FPA.
The first licensed emergency contraception product was launched in the UK in 1984, with another type available in pharmacies from 2001.
Image copyright @vitaminseafilm Image caption Beth Francis and Andrew Clark have filmed their swims for a documentary about trying to cure Beth's migraines A migraine sufferer who started taking a regular dip in the cold sea to see if it would help ease symptoms has completed her 100 day challenge.
Beth Francis from Anglesey has seen her migraines reduce from 25 to 15 a month since her personal crusade started.
She is not sure if exercise, being outdoors or swimming has helped.
But she has vowed to continue and dozens of people joined her and her partner Andrew Clark for the 100th swim off Llanddona Beach on Sunday.
Image caption Beth and Andrew said they will continue to swim after completing the challenge Speaking after the swim, Beth described the response to her efforts as "incredible".
"We've just been sharing what we've been doing through social media," she added.
"When we started it was just a journey, and it very quickly became much more than that.
"So we wanted to make this end day a celebration of everybody else involved as well."
Marine biologist Beth, 27, believes swimming in the sea has helped her condition, and she also found getting in the water soon after her symptoms started helped to reduce their severity of her migraines, although she continues to take medication and to see a specialist.
In 2017, the chronic migraines became so severe that Beth, who has been a sufferer since the age of nine, had to take sick leave from her first year of a PhD in marine biology at Bangor University.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption How it all began...Beth and Andrew started filming their swims last year She said she became "desperate" with symptoms including tinnitus, nausea, stomach aches and feeling numb on one side.
Migraine is very common - it affects one in seven British people - and can be hard to stop.
So Beth started regularly taking the plunge in the sea off Anglesey after reading research that "the sea can be used as motivation to exercise outdoors to influence health and wellbeing".
And she and filmmaker Andrew, 29, started publishing their experiences on social media, under the name 100 Days of Vitamin Sea.
Andrew said the decision to start swimming to try and improve their wellbeing was "easy".
"There's a lot of anecdotal stories floating round about the benefit to health of wild swimming and cold water swimming, or people who just get a kick out of it," he said.
"Living where we are, when we heard it could ease Beth's migraines or just make us a bit happier, it was an easy opportunity to take."
Image copyright @vitaminseafilm Image caption Beth allowed Andrew to film her good and bad days to highlight her condition Their quest for a cure for Beth also saw the pair sharing their experiences on the BBC Breakfast TV sofa.
The project earned them an international accolade for patient-led action as well as support from other sufferers, with swimmers from around the world coming to Llanddola beach for her 100th swim.
"It seems to have touched a lot of people," said Beth.
"It has been an amazing journey."
She said a university research project was being set up, looking for participants to take cold showers rather than a dip in the sea, to see if it helped with their migraines.
A spokeswoman for The Migraine Trust said she was pleased Beth had found a way to deal with her own symptoms.
"If it is working for her, then that is very positive," she said.
"Migraine is an utterly miserable condition."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Wendy Lyons, 46, was offered a self-testing kit as a precaution when she visited her GP A mother-of-three says a self-testing kit for bowel cancer saved her life.
Wendy Lyons, lives in Eastwood, Nottinghamshire, a county leading the way in the use of Faecal Immunochemical Tests or FIT.
The kit can tell doctors whether a more expensive and uncomfortable colonoscopy is needed.
Hospital bosses hope they can use it to find cancer earlier in people who would not normally be tested for the disease.
Clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) in Nottinghamshire said in November 2017, Nottingham GPs were the first in England to offer tests to patients with symptoms of bowel cancer other than spots of blood in their faeces or an obvious lump.
The test, which costs the NHS about 15 per person compared with 400 for a colonoscopy, is this year being sent to everyone over 60 as part of the national screening programme and is already widely used in Scotland.
But in Nottinghamshire, doctors can recommend the test to anyone with unexplained bowel problems, even if they think there is only a slim chance they have cancer, meaning they can pick it up in younger people too.
'Luckiest survivor alive' Miss Lyons, 46, thought she was going through the menopause when she started getting headaches and pains.
Her GP initially reassured her it was unlikely to be cancer, offering her the test as a precaution.
It showed up positive and as a result her cancer was picked up so early she avoided both chemotherapy and major side effects from her operation.
"I feel like the luckiest cancer survivor alive - I can't thank the NHS enough," she said.
"That FIT test saved my life."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption More than 16,000 people die from the cancer annually in the UK According to Ayan Banerjea, a bowel cancer consultant in Nottingham, GPs can be reluctant to recommend colonoscopies unless it is necessary.
Using the kit, you collect small samples of your faeces and post them to a lab which then checks them for tiny amounts of blood, which could be caused by cancer.
A small number of places now follow Nottingham's example, such as hospitals in Hertfordshire and Leicester, but most are waiting to see how well it works first, according to Mr Banerjea.
Bowel cancer is the fourth most common cancer in the UK and came under the spotlight after BBC journalist Jeremy Bowen's diagnosis.
Mr Banerjea said medics were now "picking up more cancers at an earlier stage".
Image caption Ayan Banerjea said GPs were often reluctant to recommend a colonoscopy to someone who is deemed low risk Follow BBC East Midlands on Facebook, on Twitter, or on Instagram.
Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Studies show that a growing number of people around the world are going abroad for treatment When Melissa Moore travelled from the US to Costa Rica for knee replacement surgery she decided to keep it a secret.
"I didn't tell my friends and family because I didn't want them to say 'are you crazy?
'," says the 53-year-old.
"Of course I also had my own misgivings about travelling to Central America and having major surgery."
Melissa, from the town of Brandon in Mississippi, is one of a growing number of people around the world who are going abroad for cheaper or quicker medical treatment.
While many Americans do so because they don't have health insurance - official figures show that more than 28 million do not - others like Melissa go overseas because their basic cover means that they have to pay a sizeable chunk of any treatment bill.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Costa Rica is not famous for the quality of its healthcare provision She says that her knee operation in Clinica Biblica, Costa Rica's largest private hospital, cost $12,200 (9,200), compared with around $44,000 in the US.
Patients Beyond Borders, a publisher of guidebooks for "medical tourists" estimates that more than 20 million people will travel to another country for medical treatment this year, up 25% from 16 million last year.
Meanwhile, a 2016 report by payments giant Visa estimated that the medical tourism industry was worth $50bn a year, and continuing to grow.
Yet before people in the UK feel relieved about having the National Health Service, with its free at the point of delivery service, more and more Britons are also going abroad for treatment.
This is more often so they can avoid waiting lists, get cosmetic surgery that is not covered by the NHS, or for dental work due to a lack of NHS dentists.
Medigo, a German-based medical travel company says that queries from UK residents jumped 53% last year.
Official figures from the UK's Office of National Statistics also show that a rising number of people are going abroad for treatment.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some UK citizens go abroad for treatment because of NHS waiting lists One British person who recently travelled abroad for surgery was Amanda Wells, from the Scottish town of Dalkeith, near Edinburgh.
The 46-year-old travelled to Poland last year - via Medigo - to have a painful bunion removed from her left foot, because she didn't want to wait the nine months that her GP estimated it would take her to get the operation on the NHS.
She says she was able to get the work done in Poland for 3,000, half the amount she was quoted by a private surgeon in the UK.
Image copyright Amanda Wells Image caption Amanda Wells went to Poland for a foot operation "I did my research regarding waiting times to meet with a [NHS] surgeon, and I discovered that my GP was being optimistic," she says.
"The facilities were excellent in Poland.
The surgeon was fantastic and I saw him for three follow-ups before I went home."
Another Briton who went abroad for treatment last year was Lincoln Summers, of Woking, south west of London.
He went to a dentist in Hungary.
"I looked like a mobster after one of my front teeth broke off," says the 54-year-old.
Lincoln says he got an implant fitted in Budapest for 800 compared with the 2,500 he was quoted by a private UK dentist.
"It was not what I expected at all [in Hungary], it was a state-of-the-art dentist," he adds.
While both Lincoln, Amanda - and Melissa in the US - say they were very happy with the medical care they received, some experts urge medical tourists to be cautious.
Especially if people are travelling to the developing world.
"People go abroad thinking they are going to get affordable care... and they get back to the States and end up having massive medical bills because they require treatment of infections, and they require additional surgery," says Prof Leigh Turner, from the School of Public Health at the University of Minnesota.
"If they have insurance, their insurance doesn't cover it.
It ends being a costly experience."
Image copyright Lincoln Summers Image caption Lincoln Summer says he is happy to show off his teeth again Despite this risk, the number of Americans going abroad for medical treatment goes up every year.
About 422,000 did so in 2017, according to the US National Travel and Tourism Office.
That is up from 295,383 in 2000.
"The number of uninsured Americans began to climb again in 2017," says Prof Turner.
"And... it seems plausible that reductions in insurance coverage are pushing more Americans to search elsewhere for affordable medical care."
Global Trade More from the BBC's series taking an international perspective on trade: Josef Woodman, chief executive of Patients Without Borders, says that much of the growth in global health tourism is coming from people in the developing world.
"You have got literally hundreds of millions of people entering the middle class in China, in India, and in Indonesia," he says.
"The healthcare systems in these countries don't offer them what they need in terms of speciality, complex care."
Back in Mississippi, Melissa Moore is continuing to recover from her knee operation in Costa Rica earlier this year.
She praises all the staff that treated her.
"I had a meltdown one day [at the hospital] because of the pain, and the feeling of helplessness," she says.
"But the nurses and techs were so sweet and helped to calm me."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption When knowing left from right is crucial Do you ever struggle to tell your left from your right, maybe when driving or giving directions?
If so, you're not alone as evidence suggests a significant proportion of the population has difficulties.
Usually, it's not a big thing.
But, in medicine, adverse events caused by left-right issues can have serious consequences.
A new study from Queen's University Belfast has questioned the idea that determining left from right is effortless for everyone.
It has said that medical education should respond by raising awareness about the challenges some medical students face.
In addition to the many checks and balances in healthcare to prevent such errors, the study has also called for greater support to be extended in medical students training.
Mr Ian Walsh is a surgeon and an academic at Queen's.
While re-creating a simple investigation with a group of fourth-year medical students, he illustrates how left and right awareness come into play in everyday situations for medical professionals.
Image caption Mr Ian Walsh teaches medical students how to be aware of left-right issues while they are training He shows them an X-ray of a set of lungs - the left lung has fluid in it.
As viewed straight on, the 2D X-rays appear to flip the left and right sides - in that a student will see the left-hand lung on the right side of the screen.
It's vitally important that the medical students are aware of this and also examine the patient themselves before they proceed to treat the patient by draining the lung.
The new research paper, which is to be published in the journal Medical Education, was led by Prof Gerry Gormley from the Centre for Medical Education at Queens.
It looked at how, for some of us, making left-right decisions is simple - but for others is it's much more problematic.
"In terms of spatial awareness, generally we don't confuse above and below, behind and in front - but left and right can pose a challenge for some people.
"It's a relatively under-researched area and still there is a lot to be known about this particular topic.
"We know that many individuals can, without thinking, determine the correct side.
"However, for others they have to go through a complex process and use many higher functions to discriminate left from right."
Crucial skill So this simple skill is actually more complex than it first appears - and it's crucial those in medicine get it right.
Dr Carl Brennan also worked on the research.
He said that some students developed their own coping mechanisms.
"One of the most common common ones can be with their hands - where on their left hand they form the 'L' shape.
"There are a number of others - wearing their wristwatch or wedding band on their left side or writing with their right."
Image caption Prof Gerry Gormley uses simulation to teach medical students in Queens University Belfast Queens University is at the forefront of a field of study called Human Factors.
Simply put, in healthcare, it looks at how professionals best interact and behave with their environment, equipment and other people in the interests of patient safety.
It can show medical professionals how best to communicate in teams and effectively handover increasingly complex information to others in healthcare.
Mr Walsh explains its application to left-right issues.
Situational awareness "This addresses beyond the more technical issues - for example where you mark the right limb to make sure you take off the correct limb, for example.
"It looks at improving quality by looking at how we behave, how we think and how we interact."
Prof Gormley said it's important to translate this type of research into practice.
"In our future simulation centre, in addition to what we are already doing we can bring students together with drama students, for example.
"They can really re-create challenging situations but also the emotions and the situational awareness so that our medical students can convert their thoughts into correct actions to hopefully reduce error and deliver high quality care."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The mosquito repellent - aka Skrillex The sun is shining on your skin, there's a breeze in your hair and someone has just handed you a coconut with a straw sticking out of it.
This is living.
But just as you start to relax you find yourself clawing at your own skin, scratching at the mosquito bites that have developed on your body over the past few days.
But it doesn't have to be this way.
According to a recent scientific study, the way to avoid mosquito bites is to listen to electronic music - specifically dubstep, specifically by US artist Skrillex.
Image copyright Getty Images Sound is "crucial for reproduction, survival, and population maintenance of many animals," says a team of international scientists specialising in mosquitoes and the diseases they carry.
They subjected adults of the species Aedes aegypti, known as the yellow fever mosquito, to electronic music to see whether it could work as a repellent.
Scary Monsters And Nice Sprites, a track by Skrillex which features on his Grammy-award winning album of the same name, was chosen because of its mix of very high and very low frequencies.
"In insects, low-frequency vibrations facilitate sexual interactions, whereas noise disrupts the perception of signals from conspecifics [members of the same species] and hosts," the scientists said.
And the results, which were published in the journal Acta Tropica, were good news for us and for Skrillex.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Fumigating is normally used to help prevent the spread of yellow fever mosquitoes Female adult mosquitoes were "entertained" by the track and attacked hosts later and less often than those in a dubstep-free environment.
Scientists said "the occurrence of blood feeding activity was lower when music was being played".
The scientists also found that mosquitoes exposed to the song had sex "far less often" than mosquitoes without music.
"The observation that such music can delay host attack, reduce blood feeding, and disrupt mating provides new avenues for the development of music-based personal protective and control measures against Aedes-borne diseases."
So, the next time you're at your wit's end on holiday, scratching up your arms and legs, you know what to hook up to the wireless speaker.
Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter.
Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Jen and Andrew Bickel, of Cardiff, suffered 10 miscarriages before having a baby.
Two years ago, the BBC told the story of how Jen Bickel and her husband Andrew had spent a decade trying for a baby, instead enduring 10 miscarriages.
Then, just when it seemed all hope was lost, their fortunes changed, as Jen, from Cardiff, explains.
There have been so many low points in my journey to becoming a mother, it's tricky to pick out the lowest.
Perhaps it was after I had both my fallopian tubes removed, scuppering my chances of ever conceiving naturally.
I didn't want to get out of bed.
I didn't want to go to work or see people.
I felt like I had crashed and burned, and it was only the support of my husband Andrew and wider family that got me through.
This was in April 2017, a decade after we first began trying.
Of course, as newlyweds, we never dreamed that having a baby would prove so testing.
Back then, we were both fit and healthy 29-year-olds.
It was 2007, and at first, I fell pregnant quite quickly, miscarrying at six weeks before I actually even knew I was pregnant.
I was upset but not too devastated; we had time on our sides after all.
But it was 18 months before I fell pregnant again, and this time I miscarried at 11 weeks.
Unsurprisingly, Andrew and I were devastated, especially when I was kept in hospital for medical management of the foetus, which involved hours of bleeding and pain.
Image copyright Jen Bickel Image caption Jen and Andrew, both 40, met at high school What is miscarriage?
A miscarriage is the loss of a foetus before 24 weeks 20% of all pregnancies end in miscarriage Abnormalities in the baby's development are a key factor Smoking, obesity and a woman's age can also play a part But worse, was the effect of this second miscarriage upon our mental health.
Many of our friends were starting families, and although we were happy for them, it made our losses all the more acute.
Personally, I couldn't help but blame myself.
Why was my body failing me?
What had I done?
In April 2009, I miscarried again after an early scan showed my baby had no heartbeat.
Then, in 2010, we decided to embark on IVF, hoping this would solve the problem, particularly as tests showed there was nothing specifically wrong with us.
Little did we know how hard this process would be.
In the first round, we created 10 embryos, yet none of them resulted in pregnancy.
A few months later, we tried again, this time receiving a positive pregnancy test - but again a foetus with no heartbeat.
On this occasion, I came home and waited for the embryo to come away naturally, but it was no less painful or upsetting than being in hospital.
By this stage, we were desperate.
Unsure of how to proceed, we paid out 2,000 for private tests, had acupuncture and bought supplements - yet nothing helped.
Still, we could not give up, so we had no option but to steel our nerves and keep trying.
In 2014, we had two embryos implanted at a private clinic, but, in the October, while out for my birthday, I felt a terrible pain in my side, which turned out to be an ectopic pregnancy.
This was the end of the road of IVF.
We had no frozen embryos left, and no more money for treatment.
Amazingly, we were then thrown a lifeline when the IVF clinic gave us a free round, after nurses voted us the most deserving couple.
Image caption The couple found it difficult when their friends started having children We implanted two embryos which failed, but froze a further three.
I then suffered two further ectopic pregnancies, resulting in both my fallopian tubes being removed.
I was heartbroken, knowing I would never conceive naturally.
In total, over the past decade, I had fallen pregnant 10 times - six times naturally and four times through IVF - and we couldn't take anymore.
All we had were the frozen embryos - our last hope - and we were keeping everything crossed.
It took months before the lining of my womb was considered thick enough to try.
But once it was, we implanted one embryo, and after another agonising two-week wait, received a positive pregnancy test.
We couldn't get our hopes up and during the scan, I lay on the bed holding Andrew's hand, filled with dread.
But there was something different this time - a tiny heartbeat, something we had never seen before.
We were ecstatic.
Still, though, even when I went through morning sickness and learnt we were having a boy, Andrew found it hard to believe.
He was incredibly supportive, but he refused to shop for baby things or decorate the nursery until the very last weeks before my due date.
Due to my age - I was 40 - I was induced to make sure that the placenta didn't begin to fail.
But, after hours of contractions, doctors realised the baby's heartbeat was dropping as the cord was wrapped around his neck.
Everyone knew how high the stakes were - this could not go wrong - so I had a Caesarean, and in the early hours of 9 February, our miracle baby arrived weighing 6lb 8oz.
Bobi William Bickel is now six weeks old, and I do not care if he cries all day or wants to feed all night; I have everything I ever wanted.
Looking back, we still can't believe how lucky we are or why things finally worked.
Was it because my tubes were removed?
Was it down to the bit of weight I lost?
Image copyright Dixon & Dixon Photography Image caption Baby Bobi arrived six weeks ago Either way, we simply want to share our story as so many other couples are going through similar heartbreak.
Struggling to conceive is incredibly hard - physically, mentally and emotionally.
Andrew and I were always each other's rock, but we would advise people to seek support.
As for us, we still have two embryos in the freezer and I'm sure at some point we will try and implant them.
If they work, so be it.
If not, we have our beautiful boy, and after more than a decade of heartbreak, we could not be more grateful.
Help and advice: If you or someone you know has been affected by issues with pregnancy, try BBC Action Line for support
Image caption "Menstruation will always exist, so it's better just to know how to deal with it," says Josefin Eklund A football app start-up in Gothenburg is set to become the first business in Sweden to be certified as menstruation-friendly.
But how much do employees really want to talk about their periods?
Rows of top-division European football kits hang from a giant goal net hooked to the ceiling, while two male developers kick a ball around on a green fake grass carpet.
This isn't the most obvious place to be championing a more supportive environment for women during their periods.
Indeed, Forza Football's chief executive Patrik Arnesson admits he "didn't think about the menstrual cycle at all" before a female employee asked if the firm could take part in a pilot scheme designed to break down taboos around menstruation.
"No one had actually told me they had to leave work to go home because of PMS," he says.
"And then I actually realized that this is a problem and I haven't even reflected on it."
PMS, or premenstrual syndrome, is the name for the symptoms some women experience before their period which can include mood swings, feeling anxious or irritable and tiredness.
Headaches or cramps ahead of or during menstruation are also common.
But each person's symptoms are different and can vary from month to month.
The project in Gothenburg is being led by a non-profit called Mensen (Menses) which was given a grant of 530,000 kronor ($58,400; 44,900) from the Swedish government's Gender Equality Agency at the end of last year.
Image caption Women are encouraged to tell others if they choose to be away from the office because of PMS Since March it has started inviting all employees to attend discussions and workshops about the effects of menstruation.
These will then be used to form the basis for a certification programme that the organisation wants to see rolled out nationwide or even globally.
'Something we have to talk about' Klara Rydstrm, who is leading the project for Mensen, says that while Sweden has a global reputation for supporting women's rights, there is still a stigma around discussing menstruation in many workplaces.
"But it's something we have to talk about, because it's a bodily function - a normal bodily function - just as being thirsty and you have to have water, or you're hungry and you have to have a lunch break," she argues.
Forza Football, which currently has around 60 workers and a 70:30 ratio of male and female employees, has already made several key changes - including providing free sanitary products and bins in company toilets Image caption "I realized this is a problem - and I haven't even reflected on it," says Forza's chief executive Patrik Arnesson And flexible working has been introduced for all staff, so they can pick their own office hours or work from home when they want to.
Women are actively encouraged to tell other team members if they choose to be away from the office because of PMS and even to share their cycle dates and symptoms with other team members in advance if they feel comfortable with the idea.
"I get really sad and lose all my self-confidence and self-esteem.
It's kind of hard to do meetings where I need to be focused and positive," says software developer and project manager Lisa Hammarstrm.
She says she's felt more relaxed talking about her symptoms since Forza Football started taking part in the Mensen project.
Colleagues are happy for her to have a lighter workload when she's premenstrual, she says, because she's very productive during the rest of the month.
Image caption "It makes things easier for me if people know what is going on," says Lisa Hammarstrm "I realized that it makes things easier for me if people know what is going on and how it affects your work."
What do men think?
Account manager Manolo Obaya admits that for some male staff, discussing periods in the workplace has been bit "awkward".
"When (women are) hormonal, is that a justification for not delivering on work or whatever?
It's hard to me to to say because I've never been in that position," he says, adding that he hopes the project will leave him better informed.
"I think the value is just making everybody aware that some girls suffer more than others and that we should be trying to be understanding of that particular situation."
While Forza Football is currently the only company working towards gaining a formal certification, the media buzz around the project has already spurred other businesses to take similar steps.
Several Gothenburg start-ups have recently introduced free sanitary protection and painkillers for employees.
Image caption "The value is making everybody aware that some girls suffer more than others," says Manolo Obaya In Stockholm, a PR agency A Perfect Day Media grabbed headlines after mulling the idea of giving female staff the chance to enter their cycle dates in a shared spreadsheet.
The project didn't get off the ground, but the company says it is looking at other ways to spark more open discussions about menstruation.
"The most important thing is that women do not feel we must be silent or ashamed about having our period," says the agency's cofounder Amanda Schulman.
"We are actively working to ensure that women have the same rights as men, [but] this is not what reality looks like for many women who suffer from PMS, PMDD (a more severe form of PMS) or endometriosis.
It is an important battle for us."
But while there is clearly a strong movement championing menstrual rights in Sweden, there has also been criticism of these kind of initiatives.
Ivar Arpi, a columnist for Swedish daily Svenska Dagbladet - currently writing a book about gender ideology - argues that suggesting women might need special treatment dredges up old anti-feminist arguments that men and women aren't equal because "female bodies can't be trusted to work properly for the whole month".
"Now you get a 'carte blanche' to act bad and you can blame your menstruation.
That's really silly," he argues.
Image caption "I don't think that my period is my boss's business," says journalist Linda Norlund For other political commentators, including Linda Norlund who writes for tabloid newspaper Expressen, privacy is a key concern.
"I don't think that my period is my boss's business frankly, and I think that in the workplace it's important to keep a professional atmosphere and not be too personal."
Lack of knowledge Josefin Eklund, who works in Forza Football's branding team, argues that even among educated women there can be a "real lack of knowledge" about PMS and PMDD.
She herself struggled with severe headaches and fatigue that she didn't initially attribute to her menstrual cycle.
"I was always taking two days off a month," she explains.
"I started to schedule or write down how I was feeling to see if I could find a pattern and eventually I did.
I could see it was related to my menstruation."
"Menstruation will always exist, so it's better just to know how to deal with it instead of pretending that it's not going on."
Image caption There is still a stigma around discussing menstruation, says Mensen's Klara Rydstrm Mensen's Klara Rydstrm says she hopes the project will also encourage men to be more open about their health and wellbeing in the workplace too.
"It opens up (discussions) for other issues as well related to men's bodies or the work environment in general.
So I think it's very applicable to everyone."
Image caption Surgeons want to create a simulation to show the consequences of knife crime Stuffing your hand into the fleshy slime of someone's stomach on an operating table is going to grab anyone's attention.
Even if it's a replica, this grimly authentic representation of surgery following a knife attack is going to stay in the memory.
That's the point of this simulation, created by a group of medical staff at Imperial College London.
These doctors want to make young people really understand the consequences of stabbing someone.
They want to show that a knife attack doesn't finish when the ambulance doors slam shut and the blue lights pull away.
And they want health services not only to treat victims but to intervene to make stabbings less likely in the first place.
Split-second decisions So, they've created an immersive role play for teenagers, getting them to stuff swabs around the organs and look for injuries below the peeled-back skin of this anatomical model.
Image caption The simulation uses professional anatomical models to show the damage caused by stabbings Wearing operating theatre masks and gowns, and surrounded by screens and monitors, the participants have to hunt through the guts and gore to find where a blade has caused damage.
The other people taking part are real surgeons, from the Imperial College Centre for Engagement and Simulation Science, headed by Prof Roger Kneebone.
"It's absolutely about public health," says Prof Kneebone, and his team is taking this simulation into schools and places where teenagers are likely to gather.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Surgeons want to join up responses to knife crime from health services, the police and councils The priority is to make young people think before picking up a knife - by showing how a split-second stabbing can end a life or have consequences that last a lifetime.
"We want people to see there is a choice.
The simulation allows you to replay it - and to show there can be different outcomes," Prof Kneebone says.
And the "physicality of the experience" can make much more of an impact than conventional talks and advice.
Victim each day "It's not a new problem, it's not just a London problem, but people are coming in at a younger age," says Sacha Harris, part of the project and a trauma surgeon at St Mary's Hospital in west London.
He says the hospital now sees about one young victim of a knife attack each day.
Image caption Prof Roger Kneebone wants young people to understand the choices they are making about knife crime An unintended advantage of this is that surgeons have become much more practised in responding to knife wounds and that trainee surgeons know more about the types of injuries from different weapons and entry points.
Prof Kneebone once worked as a surgeon in Soweto, South Africa, and says it was plagued by knife injuries but as a result victims had the benefit of some of the most experienced and skilled medical staff.
Victims in 2019 Dr Harris says the stab wounds also seem to have become less random.
"There is a pattern of attacks.
They know where to attack if they want to avoid killing.
They know how to inflict life-changing injuries," he says.
And this means some knife victims admitted to hospital have been under the same surgeons before.
Image caption Ambreen Imran wants more checks to make sure knife victims are safe when they leave hospital Their injuries can be caused by any type of knife, from something small picked up in the home home to machetes.
Prof Kneebone, who trains surgeons, says small wounds can sometimes be the most dangerous, hiding serious internal damage.
"It could rapidly change.
There is an uncertainty about it," he says.
Colostomy bag Prof Kneebone wants to stop this conveyor belt of violence, victims and perpetrators.
But he says that warning teenagers about the risks of knife injuries might not really have that much impact.
Image caption Surgeon Sacha Harris says younger stabbing victims are being brought to hospital Instead, what really connects is to show them that many stabbing victims end up with a colostomy or "stoma" bag.
Wearing one of these plastic pouches, used to collect waste from the body when the bowel or rectum is damaged, is not how teenagers want to see themselves.
The simulation takes young people through this process - and Prof Kneebone says they ask questions such as how wearing such a pouch would affect sex lives or whether it would smell.
Return visits Ambreen Imran, a researcher with a background in nursing and working with communities, says there needs to be much more thought about how knife victims are discharged from hospital.
She wants to avoid the loop tape of victims returning to the same streets and situations where they are likely to end up coming back to hospital in an ambulance.
Image copyright Getty Images "We don't know where people are going back to.
We need a wider assessment about whether they are going back to a safe environment," she says.
There are also plans to extend the simulation to the courts and prison system.
"The conversations about treatment, prevention and consequences need to be connected," says Prof Kneebone.
Dr Harris says for the surgeons repairing damaged bodies every day, there is an awareness of how easy it is to become a victim.
"It's the wrong place at the wrong time," he says.
"There but for the grace of God go I."
Video A pub landlord has praised the 'calm and precise' instructions of a 999 call operator after she talked him through delivering his own baby.
Simon Duffy, of the Perch and Pike in South Stoke, Oxfordshire, called 999 when he realised there was not enough time to get to the hospital.
The operator has now met newborn baby Chloe and her parents in person and says 'it is really nice to see what's happened afterwards.'
Video Thousands of patient files including bank details, medical records and contact information have been left behind at an abandoned nursing home.
Residents were taken out of Westbury House in Hampshire by police after a damning inspection in 2016.
Relatives of those who lived in the home say they are disgusted that personal files of hundreds of patients remain unsecured in the house along with residents' belongings and pharmaceutical drugs.
Urban explorers have also been filming inside the abandoned 300-year-old building in West Meon, and are unwittingly running the risk of being part of a huge illegal data breach.
The homes owner Dr Usha Naqvi, who is responsible for securing the files, says she kept the records locked in the basement and has now hired a company to destroy them.
Video Journalist: Ben Moore
Video When Beth Kendall's son Wilder was born, he was immediately rushed to a special care unit after being starved of oxygen.
He suffered a type of brain injury, known as Hypoxic-Ischaemic Encephalopathy (HIE), a condition which affects one in every 1,000 babies when they are born.
Two years later and Wilder, who is from Poole in Dorset, is doing well, but not enough is known about his long-term prognosis.
Researchers at the Princess Anne Hospital in Southampton are fundraising so they can carry out additional work that will give parents a more detailed diagnosis.
Video producers: Sophia Seth and Thomas Stockting
The shopping mall where everything is recycled At the ReTuna shopping mall in Sweden everything for sale is recycled, thanks to its clever location.
'Give medicinal cannabis to all who need it' Gower MP Tonia Antoniazzi urges ministers to allow the use of medicinal cannabis by all who need it, after a boy was treated for severe epilepsy under a temporary licence.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Lauren Biermann: "We've been concentrating on getting the science right; the next step is automation" Scientists are working on a technique to track plastic debris in the ocean from space.
It's extremely challenging, especially since the individual pieces of litter are smaller than the minimum-sized objects that satellites can resolve.
But the approach works by looking for plastic's reflected light signature in the water.
And early trials conducted by the UK's Plymouth Marine Laboratory have been very encouraging.
"You're never going to see an individual plastic bottle floating on the sea, but we can detect aggregations of this material," Dr Lauren Biermann told BBC News.
Other stories from EGU 2019 Image copyright @HFiskJohnson Image caption Close up (top), the plastic is easy to see, but pull out even a little (bottom) and the challenge becomes obvious.
The white box represents the size of a Sentinel pixel.
The swimmer is in the bottom-left of this box The Earth observation scientist has been experimenting with the EU's Sentinel-2 satellites - a pair of orbiting multi-spectral instruments (MSI) that were launched in 2015 and 2017 and are operated by the European Space Agency (Esa).
The duo's mission is primarily to make a continuously evolving map of Earth's land surfaces, but in the process they also capture a view of coastal waters.
And, actually, this is the key zone of opportunity if you want to monitor plastic discharge to the ocean, because much of the eight million tonnes globally that's thought to make its way out to sea every year does so through rivers and their estuaries.
In the UK, the Sentinel pair will be mapping this zone every couple of days.
Image copyright Airbus Image caption Artwork: The wavelengths of light gathered by the Sentinel instruments carry a lot of information The difficulty for Dr Biermann is that the satellites have a best resolution of 10m, meaning any objects in an image will only be detectable if they make up a certain percentage of each pixel.
But she has a couple of factors that work in her favour.
The first is that floating debris tends to aggregate in the eddies, fronts and plumes that form as river water enters the sea.
And although a lot of the time this will just be plant material, rubbish such as plastic will also be drawn in.
The second factor working to Dr Biermann's advantage is simply the quality of the detectors in the Sentinel instruments.
These have great clarity in the way they sense the different wavelengths that make up light.
And the Plymouth scientist can use this performance to interrogate the individual pixels in a picture to see what objects they're likely to contain even if they can't be directly resolved.
It works like this: seawater absorbs strongly in the near-infrared.
Plants and anything else floating in the water will reflect in the near-infrared.
But plants will absorb well in the red band, whilst plastic less so.
Further information can be gleaned from the "red edge" and shortwave infrared bands, also.
"Vegetation has a good signature that we can look for, whereas plastic has a different signature," she explained.
"So, we can start to un-mix the pixel and say, 'Right, how much of this pixel that I've detected that is nice and bright in my new floating debris index - how much of it seems to be plant material, and how much seems not to be plant material?'"
Image caption The University of the Aegean put out plastic targets.
The new index recognises the presence of plastic (left) Developing the index has involved validation work in which the Sentinels have overflown great "forests" of sargassum seaweed and even panels and bottles of plastic laid out on the water by scientists from the University of the Aegean, to get a better idea of the spectral differences between the materials.
Follow-up case studies in the Strait of Georgia in British Columbia and off the east coast of Scotland have both shown promise.
Dr Biermann says the technique needs refinement but believes the results from this early Esa-funded research certainly justify further investigation.
One of the next phases would be to apply machine-learning algorithms to the analysis of images.
Searching the pictures manually is time-consuming and ultimately not practical.
Automation is the only way to go.
Dr Biermann sees satellite observations being used to monitor improvements at those known river hotspots for plastic discharge.
The information could also be allied to other datasets to make assessments of the pollution's impacts.
"If you know where your whales or dolphins or other charismatic megafauna are foraging, you want to see perhaps how much of a risk they are at from these hotspots."
Dr Biermann presented her research here at the European Geosciences Union General Assembly.
Image copyright Copernicus Sentinel data (2016)/Esa Image caption The Sentinels gather spectacular images of land surfaces - but also of coastal waters Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright Reuters Image caption One of the last photos taken by Beresheet of the moon's surface before it crashed The first privately funded mission to the Moon has crashed on the lunar surface after the apparent failure of its main engine.
The Israeli spacecraft - called Beresheet - attempted a soft touch down, but suffered technical problems on its descent to the Moon's surface.
The aim of the mission was to take pictures and conduct experiments.
Only government space agencies from the former Soviet Union, the US and China have achieved soft lunar landings.
Israel hoped to become the fourth country to do this.
"We didn't make it, but we definitely tried," said project originator and major backer Morris Kahn.
"I think that the achievement of getting to where we got is really tremendous, I think we can be proud," he said.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, watching from the control room near Tel Aviv, said: "If at first you don't succeed, you try again."
After a seven-week journey to the Moon, the unmanned spacecraft approached a final orbit at 15km (9 miles) from the surface.
Tensions were high in the command centre as communications were lost before Opher Doron, the general manager of Israel Aerospace Industries' space division, announced there had been a failure in the spacecraft.
"We unfortunately have not managed to land successfully," he said.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Reactions from people watching outside the control room at Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI) site in Yehud The audience outside had been through a turbulent journey themselves as they watched the first part of the landing go to plan.
As Mr Doron announced that the engine had cut out, groans filled the room.
"We are resetting the spacecraft to try to enable the engine," he said.
The engine came on seconds later and the audience applauded, only for communication with the spacecraft to be lost shortly after.
The mission was over.
The project has cost about $100m (76m) and has paved the way for future low-cost lunar exploration.
Dr Kimberly Cartier, an astronomer and science news reporter, tweeted that she was "sad about how #Beresheet ended" but "proud of the entire @TeamSpaceIL".
Beresheet, which is Hebrew for "in the beginning", was a joint project between SpaceIL, a privately funded Israeli non-profit organisation, and Israel Aerospace Industries.
Why did it take weeks to get to the Moon?
In space terms, the Moon is a mere hop from the Earth, and most missions take a few days to get there.
But the Beresheet mission, which launched on 22 February from Cape Canaveral in Florida, spent weeks reaching its destination.
Its journey took it on a series of ever-widening orbits around the Earth, before being captured by the Moon's gravity and moving into lunar orbit on 4th April.
Image copyright SpaceX Image caption The spacecraft launched on a SpaceX rocket in February The average distance to the Moon is 380,000km (240,000 miles) - Beresheet travelled more than 15 times that distance.
And the main thing driving this was cost.
Instead of sitting alone on a rocket that would put it on the perfect trajectory to the Moon, it blasted off on a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket along with a communications satellite and an experimental aircraft.
Sharing the ride into space significantly reduced its launch costs - but it meant the spacecraft had to take a more convoluted route.
Image copyright SPACEIL Image caption The spacecraft enlarged its path around Earth until it was captured by the Moon's gravity How hard was it to land?
A controlled landing on the lunar surface was the major challenge for the Israeli spacecraft.
The engine was British-built, developed by Nammo in Westcott, Buckinghamshire.
It provided the power to get the spacecraft all the way to the Moon, but it also took Beresheet on its final descent.
The 1.5m-tall spacecraft had to rapidly reduce its speed, so a final firing of the engine in effect slammed on the brakes, hoping to take the spacecraft to a gentle stop.
Before the landing, Rob Westcott, senior propulsion engineer at Nammo, said "We've never used an engine in this kind of application before".
He said the big challenge would be "the fact that the engine is going to have to be switched on and get very hot, then switched off for a short period of time when all that heat is remaining in its thermal mass, and then fired up again, very accurately and very precisely such that it slows the craft down and lands very softly on the surface on the Moon."
That landing process took around 20 minutes.
All of the controls for this were uploaded and performed autonomously with mission control watching on.
What was the spacecraft supposed to do on the Moon?
Its first job was to use its high resolution cameras to take some photos - including a selfie - which it did manage before the crash.
It was then going to measure the magnetic field of the spot it landed in, an area known as Mare Serenitatis.
Image copyright SpaceIL Image caption Pictures of the moon plus a selfie taken by Beresheet as it made its descent Monica Grady, professor of planetary and space science at Open University, said it would be "looking at the landing site really closely".
This would help "work out how the magnetic measurements of the Moon fit in with the geology and geography of the Moon, which is really important to understand how the Moon formed".
The lander also carried a reflector from Nasa to help scientists make accurate measurements of the distance between the Earth and the Moon.
Temperatures on the Moon are extreme, and as the Sun rose the spacecraft would have been unlikely to survive the heat.
Image copyright Beresheet Image caption The spacecraft was due to study the Moon's magnetism while on the lunar surface How significant was this mission?
Over 60 years of space exploration, only a few nations have made it down onto the Moon.
The former Soviet Union achieved the first soft landing with its spacecraft Luna 9 in 1966.
Nasa followed this by getting the first humans to the Moon in 1969.
In 2008, India's space agency fired an impact probe, which intentionally crashed into the Moon's south pole.
Then, China's Change-4 spacecraft touched down on the far-side of the Moon earlier this year.
If their landing had worked, Israel would have been the latest nation to join this elite club.
But it was the low-price tag - and the fact that the mission was not funded by a major space agency - that was significant.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A photo taken by the spacecraft of the earth from a distance of 37,600 km (23400m) Beresheet was not alone in pursuing low-cost lunar exploration.
Its origins lie in the Google Lunar XPrize, an international challenge offering $20m for the first privately developed spacecraft to land on the Moon.
And while the competition ended last year after no-one was able to meet its deadline (the foundation has subsequently announced they will award the Beresheet collaboration $1m for their achievement), other teams involved are also continuing with their efforts to get to the Moon.
Both Nasa and Esa have also announced their intention to use commercial landers to deliver scientific payloads to the lunar surface.
Follow Rebecca on Twitter.
Image copyright Florent Detroit Image caption The finger and toe bones are curved, suggesting climbing was still an important activity for this species There's a new addition to the family tree: an extinct species of human that's been found in the Philippines.
It's known as Homo luzonensis, after the site of its discovery on the country's largest island Luzon.
Its physical features are a mixture of those found in very ancient human ancestors and in more recent people.
That could mean primitive human relatives left Africa and made it all the way to South-East Asia, something not previously thought possible.
The find shows that human evolution in the region may have been a highly complicated affair, with three or more human species in the region at around the time our ancestors arrive.
One of these species was the diminutive "Hobbit" - Homo floresiensis - which survived on the Indonesian island of Flores until 50,000 years ago.
Prof Chris Stringer, from London's Natural History Museum, commented: "After the remarkable finds of the diminutive Homo floresiensis were published in 2004, I said that the experiment in human evolution conducted on Flores could have been repeated on many of the other islands in the region.
"That speculation has seemingly been confirmed on the island of Luzon... nearly 3,000km away."
DNA shows cave girl was half Neanderthal Ancient humans interbred with us Study backs 'hobbit' shrinking idea The new specimens from Callao Cave, in the north of Luzon, are described in the journal Nature.
They have been dated to between 67,000 years and 50,000 years ago.
They consist of thirteen remains - teeth, hand and foot bones, as well as part of a femur - that belong to at least three adult and juvenile individuals.
They have been recovered in excavations at the cave since 2007.
Homo luzonensis has some physical similarities to recent humans, but in other features hark back to the australopithecines, upright-walking ape-like creatures that lived in Africa between two and four million years ago, as well as very early members of the genus Homo.
The finger and toe bones are curved, suggesting climbing was still an important activity for this species.
This also seems to have been the case for some australopithecines.
Image copyright Florent detroit Image caption The teeth of Homo luzonensis are consistent with the remains being assigned to a new species If australopithecine-like species were able to reach South-East Asia, it would change the way our ideas about who in our human family tree left Africa first.
Homo erectus has long thought to have been the first member of our direct line to leave the African homeland - around 1.9 million years ago.
And given that Luzon was only ever accessible by sea, the find raises questions about how pre-human species might have reached the island.
In addition to Homo luzonensis, island South-East Asia also appears to have been home to another human species called the Denisovans, who appear to have interbred with early modern humans (Homo sapiens) when they arrived in the region.
Image copyright Florent Detroit Image caption Callao Cave, in the north of Luzon, is open to tourists This evidence comes from analysis of DNA, as no known Denisovan fossils have been found in the region.
The Indonesian island of Flores was home to a species called Homo floresiensis, nicknamed The Hobbits because of their small stature.
They are thought to have survived there from at least 100,000 years ago until 50,000 years ago - potentially overlapping with the arrival of modern humans.
Interestingly, scientists have also argued that Homo floresiensis shows physical features that are reminiscent of those found in australopithecines.
But other researchers have argued that the Hobbits were descended from Homo erectus but that some of their anatomy reverted to a more primitive state.
In an article published in Nature, Matthew Tocheri from Lakehead University in Canada, who was not involved with the research, commented: "Explaining the many similarities that H. floresiensis and H. luzonensis share with early Homo species and australopiths as independently acquired reversals to a more ancestral-like hominin anatomy, owing to evolution in isolated island settings, seems like a stretch of coincidence too far."
Follow Paul on Twitter.
Image copyright EHT Image caption The first ever picture of a black hole: It's surrounded by a halo of bright gas Astronomers have taken the first ever image of a black hole, which is located in a distant galaxy.
It measures 40 billion km across - three million times the size of the Earth - and has been described by scientists as "a monster".
The black hole is 500 million trillion km away and was photographed by a network of eight telescopes across the world.
Details have been published today in Astrophysical Journal Letters.
It was captured by the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT), a network of eight linked telescopes.
Prof Heino Falcke, of Radboud University in the Netherlands, who proposed the experiment, told BBC News that the black hole was found in a galaxy called M87.
"What we see is larger than the size of our entire Solar System," he said.
"It has a mass 6.5 billion times that of the Sun.
And it is one of the heaviest black holes that we think exists.
It is an absolute monster, the heavyweight champion of black holes in the Universe."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Prof Heino Falcke: "We still have to understand how the light is generated" The image shows an intensely bright "ring of fire", as Prof Falcke describes it, surrounding a perfectly circular dark hole.
The bright halo is caused by superheated gas falling into the hole.
The light is brighter than all the billions of other stars in the galaxy combined - which is why it can be seen at such distance from Earth.
The edge of the dark circle at the centre is the point at which the gas enters the black hole, which is an object that has such a large gravitational pull, not even light can escape.
Image copyright DR JEAN LORRE/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Image caption Astronomers have suspected that the M87 galaxy has a supermassive black hole at its heart from false colour images such as this one.
The dark centre is not a black hole but indicates that stars are densely packed and fast moving The image matches what theoretical physicists and indeed, Hollywood directors, imagined black holes would look like, according to Dr Ziri Younsi, of University College London - who is part of the EHT collaboration.
"Although they are relatively simple objects, black holes raise some of the most complex questions about the nature of space and time, and ultimately of our existence," he said.
"It is remarkable that the image we observe is so similar to that which we obtain from our theoretical calculations.
So far, it looks like Einstein is correct once again."
But having the first image will enable researchers to learn more about these mysterious objects.
They will be keen to look out for ways in which the black hole departs from what's expected in physics.
No-one really knows how the bright ring around the hole is created.
Even more intriguing is the question of what happens when an object falls into a black hole.
What is a black hole?
A black hole is a region of space from which nothing, not even light, can escape Despite the name, they are not empty but instead consist of a huge amount of matter packed densely into a small area, giving it an immense gravitational pull There is a region of space beyond the black hole called the event horizon.
This is a "point of no return", beyond which it is impossible to escape the gravitational effects of the black hole Prof Falcke had the idea for the project when he was a PhD student in 1993.
At the time, no-one thought it was possible.
But he was the first to realise that a certain type of radio emission would be generated close to and all around the black hole, which would be powerful enough to be detected by telescopes on Earth.
He also recalled reading a scientific paper from 1973 that suggested that because of their enormous gravity, black holes appear 2.5 times larger than they actually are.
These two factors suddenly made the seemingly impossible, possible.
After arguing his case for 20 years, Prof Falcke persuaded the European Research Council to fund the project.
The National Science Foundation and agencies in East Asia then joined in to bankroll the project to the tune of more than 40m.
Image caption The eventual EHT array will have 12 widely spaced participating radio facilities It is an investment that has been vindicated with the publication of the image.
Prof Falcke told me that he felt that "it's mission accomplished".
He said: "It has been a long journey, but this is what I wanted to see with my own eyes.
I wanted to know is this real?"
No single telescope is powerful enough to image the black hole.
So, in the biggest experiment of its kind, Prof Sheperd Doeleman of the Harvard-Smithsonian Centre for Astrophysics led a project to set up a network of eight linked telescopes.
Together, they form the Event Horizon Telescope and can be thought of as a planet-sized array of dishes.
Image copyright Katie Bouman Image caption Katie Bouman is the MIT student who developed the algorithm that pieced together the data from the EHT.
Without her contribution the project would not have been possible.
Image copyright Jason Gallicchio Each is located high up at a variety of exotic sites, including on volcanoes in Hawaii and Mexico, mountains in Arizona and the Spanish Sierra Nevada, in the Atacama Desert of Chile, and in Antarctica.
A team of 200 scientists pointed the networked telescopes towards M87 and scanned its heart over a period of 10 days.
The information they gathered was too much to be sent across the internet.
Instead, the data was stored on hundreds of hard drives that were flown to central processing centres in Boston, US, and Bonn, Germany, to assemble the information.
Katie Bouman a PhD student at MIT developed an algorithm that pieced together the data from the EHT.
Without her contribution the project would not have been possible.
Prof Doeleman described the achievement as "an extraordinary scientific feat".
"We have achieved something presumed to be impossible just a generation ago," he said.
"Breakthroughs in technology, connections between the world's best radio observatories, and innovative algorithms all came together to open an entirely new window on black holes."
The team is also imaging the supermassive black hole at the centre of our own galaxy, the Milky Way.
Odd though it may sound, that is harder than getting an image from a distant galaxy 55 million light-years away.
This is because, for some unknown reason, the "ring of fire" around the black hole at the heart of the Milky Way is smaller and dimmer.
Follow Pallab on Twitter How to see a Black Hole: The Universe's Greatest Mystery can be seen the UK at 21:00 on BBC Four on Wednesday 10 April.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Simon Allen: "We'd like to see this upscaled to the whole of High Mountain Asia" The flood danger posed by glacial lakes across the Tibetan Plateau has been assessed in the most comprehensive study of its kind so far.
Swiss and Chinese scientists looked at 1,300 of these water bodies that have built up in front of ice streams and which are dammed by rocky debris.
The fear is that these lakes can overtop their barriers and send floods downstream that overrun settlements.
The team has found 210 (16%) to have the potential to threaten communities.
It is information local decision-makers can now use to prioritise strategies to mitigate the risk, says Simon Allen, whose group at the University of Zurich worked alongside colleagues from the Institute of Tibetan Plateau Research in Beijing.
"One of the key aspects of this study is that we identify important situations where lakes have developed in China, but most of the threat is downstream in Nepal, across the border," he told BBC News.
"We call these 'transnational boundary threats'.
So, these are important because it is much more complex to manage the response of two countries."
Dr Allen was speaking here at the European Geosciences Union General Assembly.
Image copyright Daniel Alton Byers CC BY-SA 3.0 Image caption Lakes that get too big will sometimes be drained by local agencies He said the assessment carried out in the central Himalaya should be repeated across High Mountain Asia.
There are several mechanisms that can generate a Glacial Lake Outburst Flood (Glof).
But one of the most common in the Tibetan region sees an ice avalanche come down the steep slope of a glacier into the lake to drive a large wave over the dam.
It was the potential for just such a scenario that the team's automated satellite survey considered.
But, crucially, the reality of humans actually being in the way of any flood was also taken into account.
"A lot of the unstable lakes are far too remote to affect people," said Dr Allen.
"Only 210 out of these nearly 2,000 lakes could potentially threaten human settlements.
So, this is already useful information for policymakers - they can then focus on these lakes.
These are the hotspots of risk."
Image copyright University of Zurich Image caption The team takes a small boat to the lakes to measure their depth, and therefore a volume Top of the list of the team's 30 most dangerous lakes is Cirenmaco, which has experienced three major disasters in the past 100 years.
In 1981, 200 people died in a lake outburst.
Second on the list Galongco, a lake with 10 times the area of Cirenmaco.
The scientists have recently been to Galongco to measure its depth, to work out a volume.
"These type of studies have to be repeated every five or 10 years because these lakes are growing and new lakes are formed all the time," Dr Allen told reporters at EGU.
"We would like this study to be replicated across High Mountain Asia - in countries like India and Pakistan - because there is a lot of money going into Glof projects, but this kind of study should be the starting point so that we're not wasting money in the wrong regions or on the wrong lakes."
Image copyright ESA Image caption Artwork: TGO looks through the atmosphere and identifies molecules by the way they absorb sunlight The mystery of methane on Mars just got a whole lot more complicated.
The gas, which on Earth is produced in large part by living things, has previously been detected on the Red Planet by remote observation, and on the ground by Nasa's Curiosity rover.
But the most sensitive search at Mars so far, undertaken by a joint European-Russian satellite, has drawn a blank.
And this Trace Gas Orbiter, as it's called, is capable of seeing methane at fantastically low levels.
Even when the concentration is only a few tens of molecules in every trillion molecules of Martian air, the TGO should still to be able to identify the presence of CH4, if it's there.
The fact that the satellite couldn't when probing the atmosphere in April to August last year raises some difficult questions and some fascinating possibilities.
Other stories from EGU 2019 Inevitably, some people will argue that the earlier detections were mistaken, but Oleg Korablev from the Space Research Institute at the Russian Academy of Sciences in Moscow will not be among them.
"We prefer not to criticise others' results; we can only claim the accuracy of our results," the TGO scientist told BBC News.
"We just report the data and leave it up to the theoreticians to try to explain what is going on."
Curiosity's sampling in 2013 in equatorial Gale Crater found spikes of methane in the air at a few parts per billion.
This was ostensibly confirmed by concurrent observations from orbit by another satellite, Europe's Mars Express spacecraft.
So, if it's accepted that the methane really was there in 2013 and that TGO is the gold standard at Mars today - it requires scientists now to identify a hitherto unrecognised process that can rapidly remove CH4 from the atmosphere in a very short space of time.
This is the working hypothesis, says Dr Manish Patel, another TGO scientist from the UK's Open University.
"If we take the previous measurements at face value, and we obviously believe our own results - then there's something going on in the atmosphere between those two points in time, and it's something we don't predict.
"We expect methane to hang around in the atmosphere of Mars for hundreds of years.
It's destroyed by sunlight, but it's destroyed over relatively long time-scales in terms of human observation.
Whatever was there before should still be there today, even if at a diluted level."
Image copyright NASA/JPL-Caltech/MSSS Image caption Curiosity found both spikes and a background level of methane soon after landing in 2012 It's as if we now have a double puzzle.
People had been debating from where on the planet methane could emerge, with the tantalising prospect that CH4-producing microbes might be the source.
Now, they will have to debate where the methane is going; what might be its "sinks".
Some sort of chemical interaction would be one answer, but Hkan Svedhem, the European Space Agency's project scientist on TGO, says people shouldn't be downhearted about the prospects for life on the planet if methane is eventually determined not to be present.
"We've got a bit fixated by methane because on Earth we all know that more than 95% of the methane comes from biological sources.
But there are abundant forms of life that do not produce methane," he told BBC News.
The Trace Gas Orbiter arrived at the Red Planet in October 2016, but then took a further year to manoeuvre itself into its proper science orbit at an altitude of 400km above the surface.
Staring in April last year, it began its systematic search of the atmosphere, using the onboard spectrometers NOMAD and ACS.
These measure the constituents of Martian air by looking through the atmosphere towards the Sun.
Different molecules absorb the light in characteristic ways.
The precision of this solar occultation method enables TGO to set an upper limit for the methane at just 12 parts per trillion.
In other words, if the methane is there, it has to have a lower concentration than this.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Hkan Svedhem: "We have to find some method of destroying the methane" The mission team is reporting its latest observations here at the European Geosciences Union General Assembly.
The group also has some papers being published in the journal Nature and in the the Proceedings of the Russian Academy of Science.
Other results include an exquisite description of how water was taken high into the atmosphere during the recent global dust storm on the planet; and a new map of sub-surface water derived from the satellite's neutron spectrometer.
This map has greater resolution than any survey before it and, aside from the obviously water-rich permafrost of the polar regions, detects some previously unknown "wet" regions at the equator.
These could be important to future surface robots looking for evidence of present-day microbial life, and for astronauts in need of local water resources.
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The simulation agrees well with tide gauge data and eyewitness accounts Scientists have produced a new model to illustrate the December collapse of Indonesia's Anak Krakatau volcano and its subsequent tsunami.
The results indicate that 0.2-0.4 cu km of material on the southwestern flank of the volcano must have slid into the sea to produce the destructive waves.
The simulation matches well the high-water readings recorded at tide gauges on Sumatran and Javan coasts.
More than 400 people lost their lives in the disaster; 33,000 were displaced.
The event took nearly everyone by surprise.
The dangers of a landslide-generated tsunami stemming from a volcanic eruption had been under-appreciated.
Local populations certainly had no warning.
Scientists, also, were having to catch up, said Prof David Tappin, who presented the new model here at the European Geosciences Union General Assembly.
Thinking had been strongly focused on the tsunamis from big earthquakes, the British Geological Survey and University College London scientist told reporters.
"Why is Anak Krakatau interesting?
Because it's the first such event we've been able to investigate using all the modern technologies and understandings that have come about over the past 20 years," he explained.
"[These include] numerical tsunami modelling, particularly from non-seismic sources; satellite radar; high-resolution satellite photography before and after the event; and high-resolution seabed mapping."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Prof David Tappin: Lessons learned at Anak Krakatau will be applied at other volcanoes Anak Krakatau's collapse occurred on the evening of 22 December, during a period of renewed eruptive activity.
A number of factors are thought to have precipitated what happened, including the height (340m), steepness and inherent weakness of the volcanic structure; and the fact that it had grown up close to - and had even migrated towards - the edge of a deep (220m) submarine trough.
When the flank went into the sea, it would have pushed out a big wave in front of it and sucked down the water surface immediately behind.
The model shows how the disturbance spread out across the Sunda Strait.
Prof Stephan Grilli, who led the modelling work at the University of Rhode Island, commented: "Numerical modelling of eruption-generated tsunamis is far less developed than for other tsunami mechanisms such as earthquakes and landslides.
"The Anak Krakatau event is timely in that it should stimulate the development of new models that will underpin improved mitigation strategies."
Image copyright Barcroft Media/Getty Images Image caption Anak Krakatau had grown to about 340m in height before the flank collapse The volcano has started to rebuild itself since the collapse.
For a while, its old vent had been open to the sea, forming a small bay.
This has now closed with the accumulation of new deposits.
The reconstruction, Prof Tappin believes, should alert the local authorities to the need to keep monitoring Anak Krakatau.
Some sort of system that provides early warning of a repeat event is essential.
In addition, the British scientist says, the lessons learned need to travel beyond Indonesia to other volcanoes that share similarities with Anak Krakatau.
"There are more than 40 volcanoes near the sea in the world which are potentially Anak Krakataus.
When we've confidently identified the mechanism then I would hope scientists at those volcanoes will be looking to see whether they have the same hazards."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption This wolf was photographed in a wildlife park in Germany.
But wild German wolves have been crossing the border into the Netherlands The Netherlands has its first resident wolf population in 140 years, according to ecologists.
Wolves were hunted out of many European countries over a century ago but have gradually been migrating back across the continental mainland.
Occasional wolf sightings have been made in the Netherlands since 2015.
But these animals were previously thought to be animals that had crossed over temporarily from Germany and would subsequently return there.
Ecologists from campaign groups FreeNature and Wolven in Nederland have been tracking two females in the Veluwe area, collecting wolf prints and scat (droppings) from which they can identify DNA.
Image caption Presenter Tom Heap holds a box containing wolf excrement found in the Netherlands "It's like Tinder," said ecologist Mirte Kruit, "it can say if it's a male or female, are they single and looking for a mate and [tell you] about their family."
They've told BBC Radio 4's Costing the Earth that their data now confirms one of the females has stayed continuously for six months and can now be considered "established".
A male has also been seen in the area so the first Dutch wolf pack could be months away.
They are still collecting data on the second female.
Controversial return Image caption The Alpes de Haute Provence region has some 22 wolf packs Wolves are controversial, however.
In France, since returning from Italy in 1992, populations have grown rapidly.
Sheep and goat farmers say they're suffering rising attacks, with around 12,000 incidents reported.
Farmers can receive compensation if they have protection measures in place, like electric fences or guard dogs, but many are still angry about the damage caused to the flock.
The French Government formed a cohabitation plan and in February last year set a target wolf population of 500 by 2023.
However, it's thought this number may be reached or surpassed by this Winter.
France is proposing to increase the cull rate from 12% to 17% if that's confirmed.
Wolves are protected under the Berne convention and can only be killed under specific circumstances.
Costing the Earth presenter Tom Heap travelled to Alpes de Haute Provence to meet some of those affected.
The region has 22 wolf packs - the largest of any region - and last year the region saw 700 attacks.
Farmer Simon Merveille said he witnessed one of his goats being eaten by wolves.
Image caption Mr Merveille believes farmers should be allowed to kill wolves that attack livestock "I was astonished because when I fired a warning shot they just stayed looking at me - they did not leave," he explained.
Mr Merveille is happy for wolves to remain in France but believes farmers must be allowed to kill them when they attack livestock.
Andre Maurelle and Ingrid Briclot, who also farm in the region, saw three wolves killing five of their sheep and taking a sixth.
They have now installed 12km of electric fences and have an apprentice shepherd, Mady, who is used to guarding cattle from lions and snakes in Mali.
"We have to learn to cohabit," said Mr Maurelle.
Back in Holland, Wolven in Nederland have been working since 2008 to prepare the Dutch people for this very moment - the return of the wolf to the country.
Ecologist Roeland Vermeulen says settled wolves are more likely to eat deer or wild boar.
Sheep, on the other hand, are "like junk food", taken by roaming wolves or those less experienced at hunting.
He thinks the Netherlands has room for 22 packs - each of 5-8 wolves.
Whether the country can learn from others and find a suitable balance will become apparent in the years to come.
Costing the Earth: The Wolf is Back is on BBC Sounds and on Radio 4 tomorrow at 9pm BST.
BBC News has launched a chat bot to help users learn about climate change in weekly conversations on Facebook Messenger.
Subscribers will get an alert every Wednesday inviting them to explore topics from rising temperatures to new ways of tackling global warming.
They can also ask questions which the bot will pass on for our human journalists to answer.
You can sign up at the bottom of this page.
We know that audiences are hungry for a better understanding of where the world stands on targets to control rising temperatures.
This tool allows them to choose the climate-related topics they are most interested in, learning more through conversation which they control.
The United Nations says we should take drastic action to cut greenhouse gas emissions within 12 years to limit the negative effects of climate change around the world.
Scientists add that keeping to the preferred target of 1.5C above pre-industrial levels will mean "rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society".
The climate bot gives users the chance to increase their understanding of the challenges - and solutions - at their own pace, in weekly instalments.
Over six weeks, it will help set out some of the actions which all of us can take, from transport choices to diet.
It will also look at existing efforts on a global scale and new science currently being developed.
Sign up for a weekly chat about climate change on Facebook Messenger
Image copyright Laurent AUGUSTIN/CNRS Image caption The original EPICA project drilled an 800,000-year-old ice core between 1996 and 2005 An ambitious project to retrieve a continuous record of Earth's atmosphere and climate stretching back 1.5 million years is officially "go".
A European consortium will head to Antarctica in December to begin the process of drilling deep into the continent's eastern ice sheet.
The group's aim is to pull up a frozen core of material almost 3km long.
Scientists hope this can lead them to an explanation for why Earth's ice ages flipped in frequency in the deep past.
Although it might seem at first glance to be a rather esoteric quest, researchers say it bears down directly on the question of how much the world is likely to warm in the centuries ahead.
"Something happened about 900,000 years ago.
The ice age cycles changed from every 40,000 years or so, to every 100,000 years; and we don't know why," Dr Catherine Ritz from the Institute of Environmental Geosciences in Grenoble, France, told BBC News.
"And it's rather important, because if we want to forecast what will happen to the climate in the future, with the increase in greenhouse gases, then we will have to use models, and these models will be calibrated on what happened in the past."
Dr Ritz was speaking here at the European Geosciences Union General Assembly, where the site for the new drilling operation was formally announced.
It will be on a high ridge about 40km southwest from the Franco-Italian research station known as Dome Concordia.
Already, the spot has been dubbed "Little Dome C".
Fourteen institutions from 10 countries will participate in what's referred to as the Beyond-EPICA project.
It will probably take about five years to fully extract the core with at least a further year to examine the ice.
The expected total 30m (26m) cost will be met out of the European Union's science budget, Horizon 2020.
Image copyright R.Mulvaney/BAS Image caption Each bubble is a little time capsule recording the ancient atmosphere's contents How do ice cores record the climate of the past?
The ice in Antarctica is made up of snows that fell on the continent over millions of years.
As this ice was pressed down, it captured bubbles of air.
These little gas pockets are a direct snapshot of the atmosphere.
Scientists can read off the levels of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping components such as methane, for example.
Analysing the atoms in the water-ice molecules encasing the gases also gives an indication of the temperatures that persisted at the time of precipitation.
Currently, the oldest, continuous ice core ever drilled comes from the previous effort at Dome C called the European Project for Ice Coring in Antarctica (EPICA).
This ran from 1996 to 2004, and pulled up a 10cm-wide cylinder of ice that was 2,774m long.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Dr Rob Mulvaney: "We need to understand why we're now living in a 100,000-year world" What did this previous ice core reveal?
The old EPICA core contained an 800,000-year record of temperatures and atmospheric carbon dioxide.
These markers were seen to move in lock-step.
Whenever the Earth went into an ice age and temperatures fell, the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere would also decline.
And when the climate warmed back up again, the CO2 rose in parallel.
These cycles occurred roughly every 100,000 years in the EPICA core - a phasing that is most likely linked to slight shifts in the eccentricity of Earth's orbit (a larger or smaller ellipse) around the Sun.
But it is recognised from an alternative record of past climate, which has been deciphered from ocean sediments, that deeper back in time the ice age cycle was much shorter - at about every 41,000 years.
That is a period probably dominated by the way the Earth tilts back and forth on its axis.
But why the switch occurred, no-one is really sure.
Image caption The previous ice core showed temperature and carbon dioxide moving in lock-step What could be the reason for the switch?
The orbital quirks described above change how much of the Sun's energy reaches the Earth, and it accounts for variations in global temperatures in the order of 1.5 degrees Celsius.
But ice ages - from their minimum to their maximum states - involve variations of six degrees.
This means there have to have been amplification processes in play.
Differences in the mix and level of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere will no doubt be a part of the story, and the Beyond-EPICA ice core, if it it can reach back to 1.5 million years ago, will expose this particular contribution.
There are certain to be additional factors, however.
"In my personal opinion, the best candidate is an internal mechanism in the climate system which has to do with changes in the ice volume on Earth," said Prof Olaf Eisen, the Beyond-EPICA project coordinator from Germany's Alfred-Wegener-Institute.
"If you change ice volume, you also change sea-level and ocean circulation.
But something happened in what we call the Middle Pleistocene Transition.
"The drivers behind the MPT are still under debate and touch on the basic understanding of the climate system."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Survey work included building a radar map of the bedrock under Little Dome C Has Europe chosen the right location?
Many nations have been searching for a place to drill the oldest ice core, including America, Russia, China, Japan and Australia.
Europe's is the first project to go into the implementation phase.
The site is helped enormously in terms of logistics by being close to an existing research base, but Little Dome C's selection was only approved after three years of careful survey work.
Teams dragged radar instruments back and forth across the ice to map the layers below.
They even sank test boreholes to work out how warm it was likely to be at the base of the ice sheet.
One of the complexities is that heat coming up from the bedrock will melt away the bottom-most and oldest layers of ice.
This is a very real danger the deeper the drilling goes, as the coldest temperatures are always found closest to the surface of the ice sheet.
"The core will be in 4m lengths when it comes up," explained Dr Rob Mulvaney from the British Antarctic Survey.
"We'll cut it into 1m sections at Little Dome C and then move them to Concordia station itself.
"At the station we'll cut the sections in half, lengthways.
One half we'll leave in Antarctica as a long-term archive (we won't have to pay freezer costs!
), and the other half will come back to Europe for analysis."
Image copyright R.Mulvaney/BAS Image caption In their radar survey at Little Dome C, the field team drove 2,500km Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Extinction Rebellion's fight against climate change is making headlines Protest group Extinction Rebellion's fight against climate change is making headlines - most recently when they stripped almost naked in the House of Commons.
The Victoria Derbyshire programme went behind the scenes with the group, which urges people to break the law to save the world.
"Troublemakers change the world," says Roger Hallam, one the group's founders.
"When they're starting to call you troublemakers, you're starting to get some traction, right?"
Controversially, the group is trying to get as many people arrested as possible.
Since its launch last year, members have shut bridges, poured buckets of fake blood outside Downing Street, blockaded the BBC and stripped semi-naked in Parliament.
Critics say they cause unnecessary disruption and waste police time when forces are already overstretched.
Mr Hallam is unrepentant: "If you're a trade union, everyone knows that when you first go on strike everyone's going, 'Troublemakers.'
But then you have to state your case, which is, 'If you don't get this sorted, we're going to die.'"
We filmed members as they blocked traffic in central London - playing cat and mouse with the police - and as young members glued themselves to the entrance of a fracking conference.
Civil disobedience Image caption Group founder Roger Hallam says he has spent years studying how to achieve social change It has three core demands: for the government to "tell the truth about climate change", reduce carbon emissions to zero by 2025, and create a citizens' assembly to oversee progress.
Mr Hallam has spent years researching how to achieve social change through radical movements.
"Mass participation and civil disobedience maximise the chance of social change in this context," he explains.
"It doesn't mean it's guaranteed, it just means it's massively more likely to be effective than sending emails and doing conventional campaigning.
And it's significantly more effective than using violence."
He estimates that thousands of people will need to be arrested before the government will take notice.
So far, 222 people have been arrested for offences relating to the protests.
"The police will go to government and say, 'We're not doing it anymore,'" says Mr Hallam.
"They're not there to start arresting 84-year-old grannies or 10-year-old kids, there has to be a political solution."
Non-violent Image caption The group was given its office in London by a supporter The group's headquarters is in a slightly unexpected spot, the top of a corporate building in Euston which also houses a construction company and a fashion brand.
It was given to them after one of their members approached a corporate landlord and said: "We're not going to be around in 10 years, let us do something about it."
He gave it to them, in effect, for free.
At a training event for new joiners, a debate is held on what counts as violence - Extinction Rebellion is a non-violent organisation.
In a role-play exercise, they learn how to deal with angry members of the public - the people they are often obstructing during protests.
They are also taught what to do when they are arrested - how to make it more difficult for police to pick them up and their legal rights once they get to the police station.
Sign up for a weekly chat about climate change on Facebook Messenger The Taxpayers' Alliance says their behaviour is "clearly irresponsible and wasting police time".
The campaign group's chief executive John O'Connell said: "They should stop these juvenile actions and express themselves peaceably, and not resort to playground politics."
Does Extinction Rebellion really think ruining people's day by blocking their way is going to change their minds?
"Yes, it is," says Mr Hallam.
"The only way people change is by getting upset.
No change is possible unless there's major emotional distress.
And you can do that violently and non-violently... it's a no-brainer, that's how society changes."
No arrests?
Image caption Lorna Greenwood says traditional forms of campaigning are not working At their Downing Street demonstration, which they have called Blood of our Children because they are covering the street with fake blood, 31-year-old Lorna Greenwood is demonstrating with the group for the first time.
"I don't want to be standing here, six months pregnant, breaking the law," she tells the crowd.
"I don't want to spend my weekend in a police cell, and I don't want to be giving more work to our overstretched and undervalued police force.
But I don't feel like I have any other options."
In fact, there are no arrests during this demonstration - the police do not always give the group the results it hopes.
"The whole point is to get arrested - I've come from Manchester to get arrested," says one disappointed man.
But there are journalists everywhere which is also what the group wants - the press covering them and telling people they exist.
Later this month, the group plans to blockade London in its biggest action yet - it says its members will sit in the streets until politicians listen.
Farhana Yamin, an international climate change lecturer and environmental lawyer, is one of the people prepared to be arrested for the cause.
She explains: "I've got four kids and the eldest one, every year she gets older and I feel, 'Where's the progress?'
All that time I spent as a lawyer and a professional away from her, what does that count for?"
Follow the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme on Facebook and Twitter - and see more of our stories here.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption 3D map showing London air pollution in 2006 London's ULEZ: How does it compare?
London's tough new Ultra Low Emissions Zone (ULEZ) is the latest - and one of the strongest - steps yet taken to limit emissions of pollutants from cars, vans and trucks.
So how does it compare with measures taken in other cities in Europe and the rest of the world?
CAZ?
LEZ?
ULEZ?
What do they all mean?
These are all different ways of describing geographical areas of cities or towns that have placed restrictions on the use of vehicles, with the goal of tackling air pollution.
A CAZ is a clean air zone, a LEZ is a low emissions zone.
Now we have London with the world's first ULEZ, or ultra low emissions zone.
Image copyright Getty Images In the UK, CAZs are areas that can decide to use charging as a means of cleaning the air, but don't have to.
If they do impose some form of charging for the most polluting vehicles, they are called a LEZ.
Across Europe there is less clarity about definitions, and LEZ is the term widely used to describe about 250 areas in different cities, with considerable variation.
"Not all LEZs have been created equal," said Yoann Le Petit from the research group Transport & Environment.
"In Brussels, in terms of coverage, it's quite a large LEZ, but in terms of ambition level, it's very low.
It started last year, banning Euro 1 cars (registered before 1992).
These are very old vehicles; you hardly see them on the street.
"You also have a very high ambition LEZ in Madrid and the one just introduced in Stuttgart, but there is no agreed definition of what an LEZ is."
Who's got the most restricted areas?
Across Europe, Italy has the most low emissions zones - some of them permanent, many of them seasonal.
There are also about 80 in Germany, and 14 each in the Netherlands and the UK.
France has also 14 LEZs, but most of these are emergency schemes that are enforced on a daily basis when there are pollution peaks.
What's happening in the rest of the world?
There are initiatives under way across all continents.
Some are more successful than others.
Image copyright Andrew Hasson Image caption Mexico city has struggled to achieve major reductions in pollutants Tokyo was one of the first cities to ban diesel vehicles, starting back in 2000.
Seoul in South Korea only introduced measures in 2017 to ban diesel cars that failed to meet emissions standards.
Bogota in Colombia has been working since 1974 to get cars off the streets.
Every Sunday sees large numbers of roads closed until 2pm.
They have also attempted to restrict cars based on number plates with less success.
Mexico city has also developed restrictions based on number plates and by banning cars on Saturdays.
However, a study from 2017 says that it hasn't worked as well as hoped because people car-pooled, used taxis or bought extra vehicles.
In the US, San Francisco has plans to ban cars on Market Street, and Los Angeles, Denver and Charlotte are thinking about how to reduce emissions in the future.
But no American city has yet banned diesel cars in any form.
Surprising lessons from the world's oldest LEZ?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The city of Gothenburg in Sweden has one of the oldest LEZs in the world One of the most curious things to come out of the introduction of a LEZ in Sweden in 1996 was the demand from trucking companies to make them bigger.
"Before the introduction, some hauliers were really angry about it," said Anders Roth, formerly the civil servant in charge of the Gothenburg LEZ.
"Then they realised it wasn't that bad and the big hauliers who invested in new vehicles realised they could make more money from having a good environmental profile, and they wanted the zone made bigger."
The world's first LEZs for vehicles were introduced in Gothenburg, Stockholm, Malmo and Lund in Sweden back in the mid 1990s.
The restrictions put in place were targeted at the most polluting diesel trucks and buses in the city centre.
Essentially, any vehicle over 3.5 tonnes.
Private cars were not included; they're still not banned.
"The next step would be to include cars, but that's a more controversial question in Sweden.
We already have congestion charging in Gothenburg and Stockholm, but politicians are reluctant to enforce more regulations," said Mr Roth.
He believes that because the Swedish cities started earlier, they have had to place fewer restrictions on vehicles to achieve cleaner air.
"We started early and people got used to it and now it's normal - people would think it would be silly to take it away."
He's a supporter of the London ULEZ.
"I think that's the best way to go.
You don't have to ban vehicles totally if they are not really bad; you can have the same effect but without the same high cost for society."
Do these restrictions make a big difference?
Undoubtedly all the zones are having an impact - but the scale of the difference varies, depending on the type of pollutant.
They've worked well with diesel particulates which the World Health Organization has linked to cancer.
"They have made a huge difference with all forms of particulate matter," said Lucy Sadler, who previously led the London Mayor's air quality team and now runs a website that collects information on how cities are tackling air pollution.
"Nitrous oxides (NOx) are harder, no thanks to vehicle manufacturers."
"If you look at Milan, which has a low emissions zone and a congestion charge combined, they've reduced NOx by 10%, they reckon.
That's huge in a city because there's not that many things you can affect.
"A low emissions zone won't be a single magic wand, but it can usually be the biggest single measure."
Is London's new zone really the "toughest" in the world?
It's very hard to say definitively as different cities have different levels of restriction.
Certainly, it is one of the most ambitious among the world's largest cities.
But some critics say that it could be tougher by banning polluting vehicles instead of just charging them.
Some experts believe this is down to the level of authority in the mayor's hands.
"In London they have the power to charge for it; others have the right to ban," said Kate Laing from C40 Cities, a group of major world cities committed to tackling climate change.
"But if you are willing to drive and pay the charge three days a week instead of five days a week - that is still making gains in air quality."
Apart from London, two cities in Europe are said by observers to be the most restrictive.
In Madrid, there is a zero emissions zone since last November, about the same size as the new London ULEZ.
To drive into the Madrid zone, you have to have authorisation and that is only given to zero emissions vehicles such as electric cars.
However, residents are given an exemption that they can continue to use their existing cars until they get a new one.
It is more relaxed for residents, say experts, because it was introduced with much less lead time than London, "Madrid is a small zone but it is very ambitious," said Yoann Le Petit.
"They could already see a NO2 reduction of around 40%.
Even outside the LEZ, they saw a slight decrease in traffic, as people know they won't be able to go through the city centre.
They even saw a slight increase in business in the zone."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Air pollution: What are the effects on humans?
Oslo also has very ambitious plans.
The city has already removed 700 car parking spaces to create bike lanes and small parks.
It also has a zero emissions zone in the centre of the city.
Do local governments make money from these schemes?
According to experts, low emissions zones don't make money.
"The more you enforce, the more expensive it gets," said Lucy Sadler.
"If you fine someone 40, it won't cover the cost to enforce it.
They don't make money.
It's a myth that some organisations like to promote, but it's absolutely not based on fact.
"Combined congestion charging is different.
Across Europe, London is best-practice as the money raised is spent on local public transport.
In other countries, it's not the case."
Where do we go from ULEZ?
To zero, most likely.
The direction of travel is to increase the size of low-emissions zones, and then, over time, to go to zero emissions.
This means that only electric cars, or vehicles powered by battery or hydrogen, for example, would be allowed in.
"Zero is a big step from low.
It will require serious investment in electric vehicles and hydrogen, and shifts towards more walking, cycling and public transport," said Kate Laing from C40 Cities.
Image copyright Barcroft Media "In London, the Mayor's transport strategy is to try to achieve 80% of trips across London in walking, cycling and mass transport by 2040; the ULEZ is feeding into a long-term vision of the city by 2040."
This thrust is not just because of air quality; it's also down to climate change.
Emissions from transport are proving very tough to curb, and will require continued restrictions on internal combustion engines.
"Increasing numbers of cities are saying zero emissions zones," said Lucy Sadler.
"In terms of where we are going - this is the final destination," said Yoann Le Petit.
Follow Matt on Twitter.
Image copyright David Curnick, ZSL Satellites scanning the oceans are a valuable new tool to protect sharks, according to scientists.
A review of evidence suggests endangered sharks can be protected from threats such as illegal fishing, using the technology.
Whales, turtles and birds are already being monitored from space, raising hopes that the technique can be applied in the conservation of other species.
Many sharks are on the brink of extinction.
Populations of sharks, rays and skates (elasmobranchs) have declined dramatically over the past 50 years.
"New technologies such as this are going to be really important to the conservation of sharks," said Michael Williamson of the Zoological Society London (ZSL) and King's College, London.
Other stories like this: Over-fishing is one of the biggest causes of the decline in sharks, through accidental or illegal targeting.
Image copyright David Curnick, ZSL Image caption Grey reef shark in British Indian Ocean Territory Predictive models based on big data analysis will be the future in marine conservation, said Maria Jose Cornax of the ocean conservation charity, Oceana, which was not involved in the study.
"The current situation where illegal fishing is addressed on a case-by-case basis may be unaffordable for both governments and the marine environment," she said.
"Technology, transparency and big data analysis could be the solution, helping us in preventing the damage before it happens."
Why monitor sharks from space?
Satellites criss-crossing the globe can analyse factors such as ocean temperature and salinity, which affect the movement of sharks across the world's oceans.
Mining such data will allow sharks to be better protected.
For example, patrol boats could be directed to areas where sharks might be at risk of illegal fishing.
Satellite imagery is also being used in conservation to detect population size - for example with whales and penguins.
Image copyright Joanna Kershaw /University of St Andrews Image caption Tagged humpback whales: A way to study marine life "There's no reason we can't foresee this being moved on to elasmobranchs, especially particularly large ones, which might spend time at the surface, such as whale sharks or basking sharks or even manta rays," said Michael Williamson.
How does this information help in conservation?
Data from satellites combined with other information from electronic tagging of sharks may be used in the future to police illegal fishing.
Image copyright David Curnick, ZSL Image caption Tags on sharks can track their movements One study tracked grey reef and silvertip sharks in a protected area of the British Indian Ocean Territory, to see how they move around the oceans.
Such tags could be used in the future to monitor sharks in real time from space, allowing detection of illegal fishing.
Why do we need sharks?
Sharks are at the top of the food chain, which makes them crucial to the health of the oceans.
Fishing - both targeted and accidental - is to blame for the steep decline in many populations, together with habitat loss due to coastal development, degradation of mangrove forests, water pollution and trawling.
Follow Helen on Twitter.
Image copyright Pixar The former president of Pixar and Walt Disney Animation Studios says he has a "blind mind's eye".
Most people can close their eyes and conjure up images inside their head such as counting sheep or imagining the face of a loved one.
But Ed Catmull, 74, has the condition aphantasia, in which people cannot visualise mental images at all.
And in a surprising survey of his former employees, so do some of the world's best animators.
Ed revolutionised 3D graphics, and the method he developed for animating curved surfaces became the industry standard.
He first realised his brain was different when trying to perform Tibetan meditation with a colleague.
Visualisation is a core part of the practice and he was told to picture a sphere in front of him.
Ed told the BBC: "I went home, closed my eyes I couldn't see a thing and for an entire week I kept trying to visualise this sphere."
He spoke to colleagues and learned that some animators could form mental images so strong they would open their eyes and the image would still be there, so they could practically trace what they could see.
Ed just thought: "That's interesting, it's probably what makes them an artist."
Glen Keane But eventually Ed realised he was not alone and that, perhaps counter-intuitively, some of the greatest talents in animation could not visualise either.
Oscar-winner Glen Keane, who created Ariel (The Little Mermaid), also has no visual imagery.
Ed told the BBC: "He is truly extraordinary, he's one of the best animators in the history of hand-drawn animation.
"[And] he said that he could never visualise either."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Glen Keane (right) won the Oscar for Best Animated Short Film for Dear Basketball, alongside former NBA star Kobe Bryant.
Image copyright Walt Disney, Glen Keane Image caption Glen Keane's early sketch of Ariel, the Little Mermaid.
Image copyright Walt Disney, Glen Keane Image caption Ariel in more recognisable form.
Ed said: "When he first did The Little Mermaid, it's a bunch of scribbles.
"And then it converges, after he works on it for a while, into this gorgeous piece of art.
"And as far as he's concerned, that's the right way to work because it means he's looking deep down inside, for his emotions, and that's what drives his drawing."
Origins of aphantasia The term aphantasia was coined by Prof Adam Zeman, from the University of Exeter Medical School, in 2015.
He had documented a case of a man who lost his mind's eye in his 60s following a heart operation.
Prof Zeman was then contacted by people who reported never having one and he described the condition as aphantasia in the journal Cortex.
Around one in 50 people is thought to have aphantasia, although exactly what is going on in the brain is still unclear.
Parts of the brain from the frontal and parietal lobes are involved in visualisation and differences at any point in the system could be the cause.
Pixar findings Image copyright Shutterstock Ed, who co-founded Pixar, had a parting gift for his former employees when he left last year - a piece of homework.
He asked 540 members of staff to take a test of the vividness of their visual imagery.
He sorted the results into: All staff Technical artists - who have a strong background in computer programming as well as artistry Artists - the animators, film designers or storyboard artists Production managers - often people out of film school who organise the production It showed that the artists were slightly better than technical artists at visualising, but the differences were not that huge.
"It was not a large skew, that's the real issue," said Ed.
The production managers were better than both.
The homework also revealed stark differences between two artists and good friends of Ed's who had worked on Frozen.
One can see an entire movie in his head and play it backwards and forwards and never needs to see a movie twice because he can visualise it.
The other cannot see anything at all.
Lessons from aphantasia Some people with aphantasia find it a cause of distress.
People have described feeling isolated and alone after discovering that other people could see images in their heads and they could not.
Ed argues aphantasia is not a barrier to success.
He told the BBC: "I think the main message is, 'OK folks you can't use it as an excuse, you can still do good work, regardless of your differences'."
And believes the study clears up misperceptions about the creativity.
He added: "People had conflated visualisation with creativity and imagination and one of the messages is, 'they're not the same thing'.
"The other one I think that people might have assumed, but if you think about it you can see why it's false assumption, is you would think if a person could visualise, they're more likely to be able to draw.
"If you open your eyes and you take out a pencil and pad, how many people can draw what they see?
The answer is a very small number, so if you can't draw what is in front of you then why would we expect that you would be able to draw what you visualise?"
Discovering he has aphantasia has also led to some insight into Ed's personal life, because his wife has very strong visual imagery.
He can remember their first date was in a park on the other side of the freeway and that is it.
She can describe the whole area.
Prof Zeman, who has led research in the field of aphantasia, said: "I think it's really helpful for people to know that the way they visualise - or not - doesn't define them.
"Although we all have different thought processes, that doesn't link with the quality of what you produce.
"We just all go about it in different ways."
If you think you have aphantasia or hyperphantasia and would like to be involved in Prof Zeman's research he is happy to be contacted at a.zeman@exeter.ac.uk Follow James on Twitter.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mark Thomas: "We subjected the technology to the temperature 'threat' of high speed" UK engineers developing a novel propulsion system say their technology has passed another key milestone.
The Sabre air-breathing rocket engine is designed to drive space planes to orbit and take airliners around the world in just a few hours.
To work, it needs to manage very high temperature airflows, and the team at Reaction Engines Ltd has developed a heat-exchanger for the purpose.
This key element has just demonstrated an impressive level of performance.
It has shown the ability to handle the simulated conditions of flying at more than three times the speed of sound.
It did this by successfully quenching a 420C stream of gases in less than 1/20th of a second.
Image copyright Reaction Engines LTD Image caption Artwork: In the test set-up, the pre-cooler is fed by the exhaust gases from a military jet engine The REL group is confident its "pre-cooler" technology can now go on to show the same performance in conditions that simulate flying above five times the speed of sound, or Mach 5.
That would mean rapidly dumping the energy in a 1,000-degree airflow.
"We're now able to prove many of the claims we've been making as a business, backed up by very high-quality data," REL's CEO Mark Thomas told BBC News.
"In this most recent experiment, we've near-instantaneously transferred 1.5 Megawatts of heat energy - the equivalent of 1,000 homes' worth of heat energy."
The testing was conducted at a dedicated facility at the Colorado Air and Space Port in the US.
Image copyright Reaction Engines LTD Image caption Without the pre-cooler tech at the front, Sabre would struggle in the expected temperature regime Sabre can be thought of as a cross between a jet engine and a rocket engine.
At slow speeds and at low altitude, it would behave like a jet, burning its fuel in a stream of air scooped from the atmosphere.
At high speeds and at high altitude, it would then transition to full rocket mode, combining the fuel with a small supply of oxygen the vehicle had carried aloft.
The early air-breathing approach would deliver substantial weight savings, and allow a space plane, for example, to go straight to orbit without throwing away propellant stages on the way up, as rockets do now.
But the concept brings with it an immense heat challenge.
The faster the flow of air into the engine's intake during the high-speed ascent, the higher the temperature.
And the heat would rise still further once the flow was slowed and compressed prior to entering the combustion chambers.
Such conditions would ordinarily melt the insides of the engine.
Image copyright Reaction Engines LTD Image caption The chilled helium flowing through the pre-cooler's piping takes away the heat Sabre's pre-cooler seeks to solve this problem by efficiently, and swiftly, extracting the heat by first passing the intake gases through a tightly packed array of fine tubing.
This tubing is fed with chilled helium.
In 2012, REL put the pre-cooler in front of a viper jet engine and sucked ambient air through the heat-exchanger.
The gas stream immediately dropped to minus-150C.
Now, the company has flipped the set-up, putting the jet engine from an old F-4 Phantom fighter-bomber in front of the pre-cooler to drive hot gases directly across the piping array.
The completed Colorado experiment replicates the thermal conditions corresponding to flight at Mach 3.3, the record-breaking speed at which the American SR-71 Blackbird spy plane used to operate.
Importantly, though, the pre-cooler took out all the heat.
"This technology has wide application, not just in the immediate, obvious domain of high-speed flight but across the aerospace industry more generally, and into more commercial applications - anywhere there's a significant heat-management challenge and you're looking for ultra-lightweight, miniaturised, high-performance solutions," Mr Thomas said.
The Colorado tests continue.
Meanwhile, back in England, REL is progressing towards a demonstration of the core part of the engine, expected to get under way next year.
This core combustion section recently passed its preliminary design review under the eye of propulsion experts at the European Space Agency.
Esa has been brought in by the UK government to act as a technical auditor on the project.
The Oxfordshire company is developing Sabre with the support of BAE Systems, Rolls-Royce and Boeing.
All are keen to see the many years of refinement on the engine concept finally come to fruition.
Image copyright Reaction Engines LTD Image caption Artwork: There are many applications for this technology, but a reusable space plane would be one Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright National Park Service Image caption Pythons pose a major threat to native wildlife in Florida A national park in Florida has captured a record 17ft (5.2m) python using an innovative approach to tackling the invasive species.
The female snake, the largest ever to be removed from Big Cypress National Preserve, weighed 140lb (63.5kg) and was carrying 73 developing eggs.
Pythons pose a major threat to native wildlife in the state.
Researchers in the park track down breeding females by fitting male pythons with radio transmitters.
"The team tracked one of the sentinel males with the transmitter and found this massive female nearby," the park said on Facebook.
As well as removing invasive snakes, Big Cypress says it uses each discovery to collect data for research, develop new removal tools and learn how pythons are using the area.
The Burmese python has been considered an invasive species since it was first spotted in Florida's Everglades in the 1980s.
The species is native to Asia but some pythons are believed to have been released into the wild in Florida as overgrown pets, while others escaped from a breeding facility destroyed by Hurricane Andrew in 1992.
The snakes have no natural predators in Florida and the United States Geological Survey (USGS) says they have contributed to "drastic declines" of midsized mammals.
Tens of thousands of Burmese pythons are currently estimated to be living in Florida's Everglades.
Image copyright Getty Images People with asthma are being encouraged to use "greener" inhalers by the NHS, if it is suitable for them.
Around 70% of inhalers used in the UK are the types that have high levels of greenhouse gases - compared to around 10% in Sweden The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence says "environmentally-friendly" dry powder inhalers contain 25 times less pollutants.
The guidance says not everyone would be able to use them, but more could.
This is the first time NICE has addressed the carbon footprint of a medicine.
It is a reaction to the 10-year NHS plan published earlier this year, which recommended a greater emphasis on environmentally-friendly approaches in the health service.
Wide variation in carbon footprint of inhalers Some inhalers - called metered dose inhalers - contain propellants known as hydrofluorocarbons to deliver the medicine quickly to the patient during an asthma attack.
These have an estimated carbon footprint of 500g carbon dioxide equivalent per dose.
It means five doses from one is the equivalent of a nine-mile trip in a typical car.
By comparison, dry powder inhalers have 20g carbon dioxide equivalent per dose, but are only recommended for people who have milder attacks.
More than 5 million people use inhalers across the UK.
Prof Gillian Leng, from NICE, said patients need to talk to health staff about what inhalers are best for them.
"People who need to use metered dose inhalers should absolutely continue to do so, but if you have the choice of a green option - do think about the environment.
"Cutting carbon emissions is good news for everyone, especially those with respiratory conditions."
Dr Samantha Walker, of Asthma UK, said: "If anyone is thinking about changing their inhaler or needs advice, we recommend that they visit their GP or asthma nurse."
To enjoy the CBBC Newsround website at its best you will need to have JavaScript turned on.
WATCH: Meet the 11-year-old working to get a statue of her hero in Lyme Regis Evie, 11, has been working hard to have a statue of Mary Anning erected in Lyme Regis.
Mary Anning was a palaeontologist in the 19th Century.
She hunted fossils and made lots of important discoveries that have shaped the way we think about prehistoric times.
As a woman in the Victorian times from a poor family, Mary didn't get credit and recognition for the work that she did during her lifetime.
Now, Evie is trying to change that.
She is on a mission to have Mary remembered by honouring her with a statue in her home town.
Read on to find out more about Mary Anning and Evie's amazing journey to have her remembered.
We also want to know the amazing women in history who have inspired you.
Let us know in the comments below!
Who was Mary Anning?
Mary Anning was born into a poor family on 21 May 1799 in the English seaside town of Lyme Regis.
She spent a lot of her childhood hunting for fossils on beaches in the area with her father and brother, and they sold what they found to try to make money.
She called them 'curiosities' before she learnt more about exactly what fossils were - the remains of ancient creatures, which are now hidden in the rocks under our feet.
In places where ancient layers of rock are exposed, like on cliff faces, they can be found.
Her father taught her everything he knew about fossils.
When he tragically passed away, Mary continued with his fossiling work.
One day, her brother spotted an unusual skull in the cliffs.
At just 12 years old, Mary chipped away to find the rest of the fossilised bones and dug them out.
She didn't know at the time, but Mary had just found the first skeleton of an ichthyosaur (which means 'fish lizard').
It would provide evidence for the theory of the extinction of dinosaurs, so it was incredibly important.
To enjoy the CBBC Newsround website at its best you will need to have JavaScript turned on.
WATCH: This animation by BBC Ideas tells the story of the young fossil hunter Mary Anning using sand from the beach where she lived and worked Did you know...?
It is thought that the tongue twister 'she sells sea shells on the sea shore' may be based on the life and work of Mary Anning, although it's hard to know for sure She went on to make many more important discoveries, including the first plesiosaur skeleton at the age of 22.
As a poor Victorian woman, though, she never received the recognition she deserved for the amazing work that she did.
It was only after her death in 1846, at the age of 47, that the Geological Society of London made her an honorary member.
Today, she is remembered as one of the greatest fossil hunters that has ever lived.
Find out more Learn more about Mary Anning with BBC Bitesize Getty Images Mary discovered the first fossil of an ichthyosaur - an ancient reptile, which was half fish, half lizard Remembering Mary: Evie's story Evie, 11, is a keen fossil hunter who loves the story of Mary Anning and all that she achieved.
One day, she was fossiling with her mum and asked to go to visit the statue of Mary Anning.
She was shocked to discover that there wasn't one.
"I couldn't understand," says Evie.
So she decided to do something about it.
Evie got in touch with the local council, who agreed that there should be one.
Now, an artist has been chosen for the project - a sculptor called Hazel Reeves, who recently made a statue of Emmeline Pankhurst, which you can see in St Peter's Square in Manchester.
To enjoy the CBBC Newsround website at its best you will need to have JavaScript turned on.
WATCH: Meet the artist who will be making Evie's Mary Anning statue (With thanks to the Charmouth Heritage Coast Centre) "We need justice for Mary," says Hazel.
"She really needs to be recognised as an amazing woman.
People are beginning to understand that there were many women over history whose names haven't been in the history books - and Mary is one of those.
"I think it's outrageous, really, that Mary doesn't have a statue in Lyme Regis, in the area where she worked all her life!
I think we need to right that wrong."
According to The Public Monuments and Sculpture Association, about one in five statues in the UK are of women, but many of these are nameless or mythical.
"It's important that there are statues of women that young women can look to as role models, be inspired by and see that they can do anything they want to do," explains Hazel.
"Girls and women are amazing.
Sometimes you just have to dig up their stories!"
Hazel is currently doing research to help her to design the Mary Anning statue.
To enjoy the CBBC Newsround website at its best you will need to have JavaScript turned on.
WATCH: What do you think Mary Anning's statue should be like?
Once the design has been decided on, the next stage will be for Hazel to create a smaller version of the statue.
Then, a larger mould will be created before the final statue is cast in bronze and coloured.
It has not been confirmed where in Lyme Regis the statue will be erected.
But once it is in place, the people of Lyme Regis will finally have a lasting tribute to their amazing fossil hunter.
"I think that if Mary Anning knew that we were getting a statue for her, she would be very happy and pleased," says Evie.
"Seeing this project comes to life makes me very happy because I didn't know that an 11-year-old could do something like this."
Image copyright PA Image caption About 40,000 vehicles a day are expected to be affected by the charge The Ultra Low Emission Zone (ULEZ) has come into force in central London.
Drivers of older, more polluting vehicles are being charged to enter the congestion zone area at any time.
Transport for London (TfL) hopes the move will reduce the number of polluting cars in the capital, and estimates about 40,000 vehicles will be affected every day.
Mayor of London Sadiq Khan said it was "important we make progress" in tackling the capital's toxic air.
However, the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) said many small firms were "very worried about the future of their businesses" as a result of the "additional cost burden".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption London's ULEZ: What you need to know Most vehicles which are not compliant will have to pay 12.50 for entering the area each day, in addition to the congestion charge.
Vehicles can be checked using TfL's online checker but broadly speaking, those which are non-compliant are: Motorbikes that do not meet Euro 3 standards (pre-2007 vehicles) Petrol cars and vans that do not meet Euro 4 standards (vehicles pre-2006) Diesel cars and vans that do not meet Euro 6 standards (vehicles pre-2015) Buses, coaches and lorries will need to meet or exceed the Euro 6 standards or pay 100 a day Anybody who does not pay the charge will face a fine of 160, although a first offence may result in only a warning letter.
The ULEZ is set to be expanded to cover the entire area between the North and South Circular roads in 2021.
TfL estimates the initial scheme will lead to a reduction in toxic emissions from road transport by about 45% in two years.
Mr Khan said London's air pollution was a "public health emergency" and it was the "poorest Londoners that suffer the worst quality air".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Air pollution: what are the effects on humans?
Analysis Tom Edwards, BBC London transport correspondent A very damp misty morning in London and most people probably won't notice anything has changed.
But London has taken a big step in trying to clean up its air.
Given the go-ahead in 2013 by the previous mayor Boris Johnson, Sadiq Khan brought the ULEZ forward a year and is planning to expand it in 2021.
City hall says the ULEZ has already changed behaviour, with a fall in vehicles in central London and a rise in compliant vehicles ahead of launch.
The plan is that London's air will be compliant with legal limits by 2025.
Other cities are talking about diesel bans but London has taken the radical step that puts it in the vanguard of clean-air schemes.
Other cities are watching closely.
Speaking to BBC Breakfast, Sandra Green from the Clear Air Parents Network said the scheme was a "really big step forward".
"Air pollution caused by traffic, caused by individual cars - is causing problems for health for the next generation... and it's about time we did something about it," she said.
Figures from City Hall show more than 60% of all vehicles driving through the charging zone in March were already compliant with the new restrictions.
Nearly 27,000 non-compliant vehicles have been taken off the roads in the last two months, and there has been an 11% drop in the total number of cars entering central London.
However, some drivers have spoken about their anger that governments had previously recommended buying diesel cars which are now being targeted by the charge.
Jim Parker, managing director at car recovery company Boleyn, said the charge was "really unfair".
"It's not just us, it is across the industry - everybody that owns a van or a truck and earns a living with it," he said.
"We've had a local business, where the margins are so tight, they've now had to cease trading because they can't get a retrofit kit and they can't afford new vehicles."
Go Ultra Low, an electric vehicle campaign backed by the government, said: "There has never been a better time for drivers to consider making the switch to electric."
Image caption The RSPB fears there is a "risk of birds getting stuck in or behind the netting and as a result dying" Sand martins could get stuck and die as a result of netting put on cliffs by a council, the RSPB has warned.
North Norfolk Council has put the nets up at Bacton to encourage the birds to nest further along the coast.
Jeff Knott, regional director of RSPB, said: "We are really worried with the length of netting.
There is a risk of birds getting stuck in or behind the netting and as a result dying."
The council said it intended to meet the RSPB to discuss its concerns.
The nets have been put up over nesting holes to help protect the cliffs.
A council spokesman said the landscaping scheme was "designed to protect hundreds of homes in Bacton and Walcott, and the critical infrastructure of Bacton Gas Terminal".
Image caption The RSPB said it had reached out to the council to offer advice He added: "It has been subject to full environmental impact assessment, planning permission and marine licence applications.
"We understand that the RSPB have concerns around the temporary netting element of the project and we are intending to meet with them and contractors on site to fully assess what those concerns are."
An RSPB spokesman said: "We are disappointed that the council have placed netting on the cliffs at Bacton to prevent sand martins from nesting.
"In an effort to minimise the disturbance to nesting sand martins during the sandscaping project, we supported the contractor's recommendation for the council to use a fine mesh (which birds cannot get trapped in) on a small section of the cliff.
"Based on the images we have seen published, our advice has not been followed and we will be reaching out to the council to offer further advice and support."
Image copyright Jan De Rydt Image caption The Brunt Ice Shelf is between 150m and 250m thick When a giant iceberg breaks away from near Britain's Halley research base, it won't be because of climate change.
Scientists Jan De Rydt and Hilmar Gudmundsson have spent years studying the area and say the calving will be the result of natural processes only.
The Antarctic station, which sits on a floating platform of ice, was moved in 2017 to get it away from a large chasm.
That crack is now expected to dump a berg the size of Greater London into the Weddell Sea.
It's not clear precisely when this will happen, but the breakaway looks imminent, prompting the British Antarctic Survey (BAS) to withdraw its staff from Halley as a precaution.
As soon as the calving does occur, though, it can be guaranteed that one of the first questions everyone will ask is: what was the influence of climate change?
And the Northumbria University team believes it will be able to answer with high confidence: "There was none."
Jan De Rydt and Hilmar Gudmundsson have built a model to describe the behaviour of the floating ice platform, which is known as the Brunt Ice Shelf.
Image copyright Jan De Rydt Image caption The model explains why Chasm One opened up where it did, and the direction it took The Brunt is essentially an amalgam of glacier ice that's flowed off land and pushed out to sea at a rate of about 400m per year.
Incorporating satellite and surface-gathered data, the team's model reveals how stress is distributed across the 150-250m-thick structure.
And it predicts accurately where cracks are likely to develop and the path they will take.
Sign up for a weekly chat about climate change on Facebook Messenger "It all fits together; it's a very compelling piece of work," says Prof Gudmundsson.
"It shows that the chasm started to grow because of the stresses building up, and they built up because of the natural growth of the ice shelf.
The ice shelf itself created this chasm."
The Brunt has never been in quite so advanced a position.
The famous explorer Sir Ernest Shackleton mapped its ice front in 1915 and the modern cliff edge is well beyond what he saw.
A calving seems overdue.
The chasm is not the only major split in the Brunt, however.
To the east of Halley is a crack dubbed Halloween, after its discovery on 31 October 2016.
This fissure is likely to produce its own berg at some point, but, again, this behaviour can be described simply by the developing stresses in the shelf.
"There is no indication from oceanographic or atmospheric data that the climate is changing in the Brunt area," Dr De Rydt told BBC News.
"Our ocean observations are limited but whatever we have doesn't indicate anything unusual; and our model shows that what we are seeing can be perfectly explained by natural changes in the geometry of the ice shelf."
Image copyright Jan De Rydt/BAS Image caption At some point in the future the Halloween Crack will produce its own berg The Northumbria pair were previously employed at BAS and it was their work that informed the survey's decision to move Halley and the choice of where to put it - 23km upstream of the chasm.
Had the base not been shifted, it would now be in a very precarious position.
It was forward-thinking that now looks very smart.
BAS has once more ordered the base be closed for the period from March to November.
There's some uncertainty over how exactly the shelf will react in a large calving event, and the survey doesn't want to be mounting rescue missions in the darkness of a polar winter.
This would be extremely hazardous.
Image copyright BAS Image caption The distinctive Halley VI base sits on hydraulic legs and skis so it can be moved more easily With no-one on the ice surface, notice of any breakaway will have to come from automated in-situ instrumentation and from spacecraft observations.
The EU's Sentinel-1 radar satellites pass overhead every few days and their precision measurements can discern not only the propagation of cracks, but also the subtle deformation in the ice as it moves.
This remote-sensing data is processed by the ENVEO (Environmental Earth Observation) company, in Innsbruck, Austria; and ENVEO staff are co-authors on a new paper with the Northumbria team that is under review in The Cryosphere journal.
Although the model has skilfully forecast the actions of cracks on the Brunt Ice Shelf, what it can't do is predict the actual date for a calving event.
The chasm shaping the 1,500-sq-km would-be iceberg has maybe 3-4km to go before it cuts completely through the Brunt shelf.
This last thread could go tomorrow, or it may hang on for months.
"In this particular case, extrapolation may be the simplest way to think about it," said Prof Gudmundsson.
"The chasm's been growing at about 1-2km a year and we haven't really seen any slow-down in winter.
It's almost through already, but I would say it should happen within a year."
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright SPL Image caption Brenner was part of the hothouse environment at Cambridge's Laboratory of Molecular Biology Sydney Brenner, one of the giants of 20th Century science, has died.
The South African of Lithuanian descent made many pioneering discoveries in the field of molecular and developmental biology, winning a Nobel Prize in 2002.
The Nobel recognised his work with the tiny roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans, which is now widely used by researchers as a model to test the fundamentals of how all living organisms work.
But Brenner also made big contributions to the understanding of DNA.
He worked routinely with the other greats in this area, such as Francis Crick, Franois Jacob, Linus Pauling and James Watson.
Brenner helped establish the role played by the molecule RNA in carrying the "code of life" held in the DNA sequence to the ribosome protein factories in cells.
He also realised the importance of codons - the sets of three bases, or "letters" - in the DNA sequence that signify the correct string of amino acids the ribosomes should use to assemble the proteins.
It is the proteins - enzymes and hormones, etc - that ultimately construct and maintain our bodies.
Born in 1927, Sydney Brenner had an impoverished start to life as an immigrant in South Africa, and famously taught himself to read from the newspapers that were used as tablecloths at dinner time.
But his precocious talent saw him win a scholarship to medical school at the age of just 15.
He later went on to study for a PhD at Oxford University in the UK, before moving across to Cambridge where he joined the hothouse environment of the Laboratory of Molecular Biology.
The LMB produced a stream of Nobel Prize winners, and he was its second director from 1979 to 1986.
In his later years, he put much effort into building scientific capacity in Singapore.
And it was the Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR), Singapore's lead public sector research agency, that announced Sydney Brenner's death on Friday morning.
Image copyright Unding Jami Image caption The university said the tree is longer than a standard football pitch Scientists in the UK and Malaysia say they have discovered the world's tallest tropical tree measuring more than 100m (328ft) high.
The lofty yellow meranti was spotted in a Borneo rainforest by a team from the University of Nottingham last year.
Researchers from the University of Oxford then carried out 3D scans and drone flights to confirm the record.
The tree, found in the Danum Valley Conservation Area in Sabah, has been named Menara, which is Malay for tower.
Local climber Unding Jami, who scaled the tree with a measuring tape, said it was a "scary and windy" ascent.
"But honestly the view from the top was incredible.
I don't know what to say other than it was very, very, very amazing," he added.
Image copyright South East Asia Rainforest Research Partnership Image caption It is thought the tree could also be the world's tallest flowering plant Dr Doreen Boyd, from the University of Nottingham, said the find was key because "it's the science telling us these trees do exist, they are reaching heights we have perhaps never anticipated and there will be other tall trees out there that haven't been discovered yet".
"It tells us that we do need to protect these trees," she said.
Dr Alexander Shenkin, from the University of Oxford, said after hearing about Nottingham's discovery, they made the "gruelling" three-hour trek to Menara.
He said: "I've seen what I thought were lots of tall trees, but when I walked up to this giant, your head just keeps going up and up as you look to the top.
"I've never seen a tree quite like it."
Follow BBC East Midlands on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Akihiro Ikeshita Image caption Artwork: Scientists want to retrieve a pristine sample of material from the crater The Japanese Hayabusa-2 spacecraft is thought to have detonated an explosive charge on the asteroid it is exploring.
The idea was to create an artificial crater on the object known as Ryugu.
If this is successful - and the early indications are positive - the probe will later return to gather samples from the gouged depression.
Scientists believe these samples could help them better understand how Earth and the other planets were formed in the early Solar System.
Image copyright JAXA Image caption An apparent spray of debris is captured by the deployed camera The explosive device, called the Small Carry-on Impactor (SCI), was released from Hayabusa-2 on Friday.
The SCI, a 14kg conical container, was packed with plastic explosive intended to punch a 10m-wide hole in the asteroid.
Because of the debris that would have been thrown up in this event, Hayabusa-2 manoeuvred itself before the detonation to the far side of 800m-wide Ryugu - out of harm's way and out of sight.
But the probe left a small camera behind called DCAM3 to observe the explosion.
Images returned to Earth later on Friday appeared to show a spray of debris emerging from the limb of the asteroid, indicating the experiment to excavate a crater very probably worked.
Hayabusa-2 will, in a few weeks, return to the crater to try to collect its pristine samples.
Because they will come from within the asteroid, they will not have been exposed to the harsh environment of space.
Bombardment with cosmic radiation over the aeons is thought to alter the surfaces of these planetary building blocks.
So, scientists want to get at a fresh sample that hasn't been changed by this process.
Ryugu belongs to a particularly primitive type of space rock known as a C-type asteroid.
It's a relic left over from the early days of our Solar System, and therefore records the conditions and chemistry of that time - some 4.5 billion years ago.
A video posted by The Planetary Society shows the SCI being tested on Earth: Speaking at last month's 50th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference (LPSC), project scientist Sei-ichiro Watanabe said the experiment would also "provide us with information of the strength of the surface layer of Ryugu".
This could help shed light on how the asteroid developed its characteristic "spinning top" shape.
Image copyright JAXA, Uni Tokyo & collaborators Image caption Ryugu has a characteristic "spinning top" shape Scientific results suggest Ryugu was formed from loose debris that was blasted off a bigger asteroid and then came back together to form a secondary object.
At the LPSC meeting, held in The Woodlands in Texas, Yuichi Tsuda, the mission's project manager, told me how the team decided where on Ryugu to generate the artificial crater.
"There are two things: the first priority is to make a hole where we can easily identify a crater... so, easy observation, not too hard, not too bumpy," he said.
"Second, somewhere that's as feasible as possible in terms of landing... if those two don't meet together, we go with the first priority."
Scientists may command Hayabusa-2 to descend into the crater at a later date to collect a pristine sample of rock.
But they will only do so if there is no risk of the spacecraft colliding with a boulder.
Follow Paul on Twitter.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The newly discovered early whale lived about 43 million years ago The fossil of a 43-million-year-old whale with four legs, webbed feet and hooves has been discovered in Peru.
Palaeontologists believe the marine mammal's four-metre-long (13 ft) body was adapted to swim and walk on land.
With four limbs capable of carrying its weight and a powerful tail, the semi-aquatic whale has been compared to an otter or a beaver.
Researchers believe the discovery could shed light on the evolution of the whale and how it spread.
"This is the most complete specimen ever found for a four-legged whale outside of India and Pakistan," Dr Olivier Lambert, a scientist at the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences and co-author of the study, said.
It was found in marine sediments 1km (0.6 miles) inland from Peru's Pacific coast, at Playa Media Luna.
The location has piqued researchers' interest as the first whales are thought to have first evolved in South Asia around 50 million years ago.
As their bodies became better suited to water, they migrated further afield to North Africa and North America, where fossils have been found.
The latest discovery suggests early whales managed to swim there from South America.
"Whales are this iconic example of evolution," Travis Park, an ancient whale researcher at the Natural History Museum in London, said.
"They went from small hoofed mammals to the blue whale we have today.
It's so interesting to see how they conquered the oceans."
An international team of palaeontologists from Peru, France, Italy, the Netherlands, and Belgium excavated the fossil in 2011.
They have named it Peregocetus pacificus, meaning "the travelling whale that reached the Pacific".
Image copyright NETTE WILLIS/ARC CENTRE CORAL REEF STUDIES Image caption The Great Barrier Reef suffered mass bleaching events in 2016 and 2017 The number of new corals on Australia's Great Barrier Reef has plunged by 89% since unprecedented bleaching events in 2016 and 2017, scientists say.
The events, which damaged two-thirds of the world's largest reef system, are now being blamed for triggering a collapse in coral re-growth last year.
"Dead corals don't make babies," said lead author Prof Terry Hughes, from Queensland's James Cook University.
The scientists blame the problem on rising sea temperatures.
The research, published in journal Nature on Thursday, was carried out by a group of scientists last year.
It measured how many adult corals along the reef had survived following the mass bleaching events, and the number of new corals that had been produced.
"Across the length of the Great Barrier Reef, there was an average 90% decline from historical [1990s] levels of recruitment," co-author Prof Andrew Baird told the BBC.
The study highlights the link between coral vulnerability and rising sea temperatures resulting from sustained global warming, and recommends increased international action to reduce carbon emissions.
Coral bleaching is caused by rising temperatures and occurs when corals under stress drive out the algae - known as zooxanthellae - that give them colour.
If normal conditions return, the corals can recover.
But it can take decades, and if the stress continues the corals can die.
'Nothing left to replenish the reef' Prof Baird said the "pretty extraordinary" decline was unexpected.
It was most likely the reef's first re-growth problem on a mass scale, he added.
Image copyright ARC COE FOR CORAL REEF STUDIES/ TORY CHASE Image caption Scientists measured the number of coral "babies" in 2018 "Babies can travel over vast distances, and if one reef is knocked out, there are usually plenty of adults in another reef to provide juveniles," Prof Baird said.
However, the bleaching in 2016 and 2017 affected a 1,500km (900 miles) stretch of the reef.
"Now, the scale of mortality is such that there's nothing left to replenish the reef," Prof Baird said.
The study also found that the mix of baby coral species had changed.
It found a 93% drop in Acropora, a species which typically dominates a healthy reef and provides habitats for thousands of other species.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption What caused coral bleaching?
The researchers said coral replenishment could recover over the next five to 10 years if there were no future bleaching events.
However, given current estimates, this likelihood was "almost inconceivable", said Prof Baird.
"We've gotten to the point now where local solutions for the reef are almost pointless - the only thing that matters is action on climate change," Prof Baird said.
The reef - a vast collection of thousands of smaller coral reefs stretching from the northern tip of Queensland to the state's southern city of Bundaberg - was given World Heritage status in 1981.
The UN says it is the "most biodiverse" of all the World Heritage sites, and of "enormous scientific and intrinsic importance".
Image copyright Bettina Maidment Piles of plastic toys take up space in many family homes in the UK.
If you're a parent, then you'll know how tricky it can be to avoid buying them, whether it's diggers, dolls houses or building bricks.
The UK's toy industry is massive - last year consumers spent 370m on them.
But environmentalists say this is contributing to the amount of plastic ending up in landfill and oceans.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Plastic toys can end up in landfill and in the ocean A poll by the British Heart Foundation found that more than a quarter of parents admit to throwing away toys that are in perfect working order.
It spoke to more than 2,000 people and found children have an average of four toys they've never played with.
'My daughter loves plastic toys' Lauren Tedaldi says her three-year-old daughter Mirella gets given loads of toys from friends and family.
"Whether it's Easter, Christmas or birthdays it always seems to be an excuse to buy new toys."
Image copyright Lauren Tedaldi Image caption Lauren Tedaldi says her daughter prefers bright plastic toys "Try as we might to buy wooden toys, or things that are a bit more durable, or that are better for the environment, my little girl loves plastic toys.
"Like most kids, the brighter and the crazier - the better.
"We try to save the big toys for special occasions, but it's hard and it's easy to end up with lots and lots of toys."
Lauren says she does try and take a bag of old toys to charity shops regularly and has a "one-in, one-out policy" when it comes to toys in the house.
Image copyright Lauren Tedaldi Image caption Mirella's old toys get taken to the charity shop "I know charity shops can recycle what they can't sell.
"I would never just throw toys away even if I was questioning if they were in good nick."
Can toys ever be environmentally friendly?
Whilst we don't know exactly how much of the plastic that ends up in landfill comes from toys, green campaigners say that consumers can help reduce the amount in circulation.
Friends of the Earth says there are ways to cut back on buying plastic toys - things like toy libraries, passing toys on, buying less, borrowing off friends and sharing more.
Greenpeace UK told the BBC it doesn't count plastic toys as 'single-use plastics' as they can be used time and time again.
"Toys are far from single use plastics, as we know from research that they stay within a household for approximately 10 years and tend to then be passed on to charities, friends and families," Natasha Crookes from the British Toy and Hobby Association says.
The organisation claims many toys will last between 15-20 years before they enter the waste stream.
Making toys out of recycled plastic might not be the answer either.
"Recycled plastics are rarely able to be used in the process of manufacturing toys due to the uncertainty of the chemical composition of recycled plastic," Natasha says.
"It could contain one of the thousands of chemicals restricted under toy safety legislation."
'It's all about buying good quality toys' Avoiding plastic altogether and buying toys out of sustainable materials could be the answer.
There are loads of new eco-style brands that offer toys made from sustainable wood and recycled materials.
But they can be expensive.
Mum-of-two Rachel Lochhead says she tries to stay away from plastic toys if she can help it and only buys "good quality" toy brands new so she knows they will last a long time.
Image copyright Rachel Lochhead Image caption Rachel tries to buy good quality toys that will last Rachel says she does buy some plastic toys but only second hand ones - mainly from Ebay or Gumtree and charity shops.
"Plastic is a practical material and cheap to manufacture so inevitably lots of things are made from it."
'Buying second hand saves me loads of money' Bettina Maidment tries to live a plastic-free life.
When it comes to toys though, she says she still buys plastic, but only second-hand.
Image copyright Bettina Maidment Image caption Bettina Maidment says she never buys brand new toys for her two boys "For the last two Christmases I've done a second-hand Christmas - I save quite a lot of money that way.
"My son got a bike for his birthday which we couldn't afford brand new, but second-hand it was like new and he loves it."
It's not just online auction sites that have grown in popularity when it comes to reselling toys, parents often post ads on social media groups offering up toys for free or a small price.
How safe is it to buy second-hand toys?
There have been some concerns about the health risks of buying second-hand toys.
Last year a study found some toys tested didn't meet the most up-to-date safety guidelines.
Mark Gardiner, of the Chartered Trading Standards Institute, said: "Any goods that are bought second-hand are not going to have the same safety assurances.
"Parents should weigh up these risks, especially when giving their children toys that are very old and could have also mechanically deteriorated over time."
What are the toy companies doing about plastic?
Whilst consumers are taking steps to reuse or recycle toys, green campaigners say it's up to manufacturers and retailers to act.
Some toy companies are taking steps to become more sustainable.
Image copyright LEGO Image caption Lego's leaves, bushes and trees are made from plastic sourced from sugarcane Lego's leaves, bushes and trees are now actually green - they're made with plastic sourced from sugarcane.
It's part of the Danish company's pledge to use sustainable materials in its products and packaging by 2030.
Toy company MGA Entertainment, which is behind L.O.L Surprise!, is trying to cut back on the waste produced from packaging its dolls.
Consumers are invited to box the waste up, request and print a label from the website, before sending it off to TerraCycle for recycling.
How easy is it to recycle plastic toys?
Rather than chucking out an old plastic train set if it's damaged, it's worth checking with your local recycling centre if they'll take it.
Plastic toys and games can't be collected as part of your household recycling scheme, according to the Recycle Now campaign group.
"If your toys and games are beyond repair, it may still be possible to recycle some of the parts if you dismantle them - and this includes batteries and battery packs from remote controls which should be removed and recycled."
Video For centuries, the Moon has been a source of fascination and inspiration for artists.
To mark 50 years since man first stepped on the lunar surface, New York's Hudson River Museum is showing the impact our softly glowing neighbour has had on American art.
The BBC went on a tour with chief curator Laura Vookles.
The Color of the Moon: Lunar Painting in American Art runs until 12 May.
Video produced by Mat Morrison, filmed by Henry Morton and edited by Joni Mazer Field
Image caption The school's surrounding mountainous landscape is almost devoid of vegetation as it is above the tree line Secmol is a school pioneering practical green education in one of the world's harshest environments.
Its campus is perched nearly 11,000ft (3,350m) up in the pre-Himalayan mountains along the Indus River in Ladakh, in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir.
The teenage pupils at Secmol (Students' Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh) lack wi-fi and almost all phone coverage, in an area only accessible by air during the long harsh winter when deep snow renders roads out of the province impassable.
The surrounding mountainous landscape is almost devoid of vegetation as it is above the tree line.
Image copyright Sumedh Chaphekar The school even sets its own time zone to maximise sunlight, which also reminds every student and visitor that when they pass the gates they are entering a different world.
Pupils are all from the regular Ladakhi school system and only those who have failed their year 10 exams are permitted to attend.
There are also a number of university students who form a core part of the community along with the teachers.
School director Konchok Norgay explained to the BBC that the students learn about the environment for an hour or two each day.
In a typical maths lesson, they may calculate if the water from the spring is enough for tree planting, or work out the efficiency of the solar cooker that they use for heating water.
The solar cooker looks impressive, with mirrors crafted to catch the harsh sunlight, focusing their power to create intense heat.
But it is currently only used to boil water for tea.
Norgay proudly showed off his experimental biogas methane digester, which is powered by slurry.
Dung is mixed with water and then placed in a long tube and left for several days.
The gas rises to the top, and is filtered through steel wool to ensure the gas does not corrode the oven, before reaching a plastic inflatable reserve tank.
"It's fantastic as not only do you use less commercial gas, but you use natural materials instead," student Stanzin Sungrab says.
"And we can use the slurry waste as fertiliser in the kitchen garden."
Each student must perform daily responsibility shifts and develop their confidence with nightly presentations to the rest of the school and visitors.
Stanzin has spent many hours developing relationships with Karjama, Thotkar and Sheyma, the campus cows.
When students are not on the 04:00 breakfast preparation shift, the day starts at 07:00 with a seven-minute group meditation.
Students are encouraged to focus on goals for the day over a meal of cold roti bread and homemade apricot jam.
The apricot stones are sent to a neighbouring monastery, where the kernels are recycled into apricot oil.
Innovation is hard-wired into the architecture of the campus, challenged by an environment where winter temperatures typically reach -15C to -25C, and summer can often peak at 30C.
Ladakh has longstanding environmental credentials - even if the recent sprouting of large concrete hotels and increasing pollution in the capital Leh are challenging its green record.
"We banned plastic bags here 30 years ago," says Sonam Gatso, who operates a local green organisation.
Sonam also believes local Buddhist culture helps promote environmental awareness.
"We try to be compassionate as we believe in Karma - cause-and-effect.
If you do wrong to anyone else or the environment, wrong will come to you."
Secmol is an impressive school, but how far can its lessons extend beyond its innovative but isolated campus?
Urgain Nurbu, a former Secmol student who is now living on campus again, has been so inspired by what he learnt that he organised an environmental youth camp in his remote village.
The camp-goers make rain jackets from old plastic, and Urgain invites environmental speakers to inspire the young people.
One graduate has started her own eco-travel company, another makes environmentally-themed films.
Shara, an architectural student, is now experimenting with creating pre-fabricated building blocks from mud, wood shavings and straw.
She is part of a team designing a new university in the area which plans to teach eco-tourism and green architecture, scaling the influence of ideas nurtured in Secmol's pioneering atmosphere.
For now, the school's impact is achieved by transforming individual mindsets to create a sense of shared responsibility.
"My grandfather told me how quiet and beautiful our village used to be and there were fish in the river," student Padma Doma told the BBC.
"That's why it's so important to me to protect our precious environment.
In the future, maybe it can be like that again.
"I want to go home and convince my family to segregate their garbage.
Will they listen?
Perhaps not, but I will try, and if I see somebody throwing away a packet, I will pick it up."
Stanzin feels this is "a really critical time for our planet".
"In our homes we throw away garbage but here we recycle.
In our homes we throw away plastic but here we use it for insulation."
As the environment is so harsh, Ladakhis are very conscious of subtle changes in the weather, and have become increasingly aware of climate change, he says.
"Last year, we didn't have much snow so there's not enough snowmelt in the springtime.
Because we are so high up and everything must be treasured, you learn to understand the value of the smallest drop of water."
All photos Emily Kasriel unless indicated.
Subject to copyright.
Image copyright Getty Images There's fresh hope for the survival of endangered Tasmanian devils after large numbers were killed off by facial tumours.
The world's largest carnivorous marsupials have been battling Devil Facial Tumour Disease (DFTD) for over 20 years.
But researchers have found the animals' immune system to be modifying to combat the assault.
And according to an international team of scientists from Australia, UK, US and France, the future for the devils is now looking brighter.
"In the past, we were managing devil populations to avoid extinction.
Now, we are progressively moving to an adaptive management strategy, enhancing those selective adaptations for the evolution of devil/DFTD coexistence," explains Dr Rodrigo Hamede, from the University of Tasmania.
First discovered in north-eastern Tasmania in 1996, the disease has since spread across 95% of the species' range, with local population losses of over 90%.
Dr Hamede's team has been collecting epidemiological evidence over the past 10 years.
The group has plotted scenarios based on current infection rates in the wild, and in their forecast for the next 100 years, 57% of scenarios see DFTD fading out and 22% predict coexistence.
Image copyright Dr Max Stammnitz Image caption Tumours can become as large as half the size of the face How does the disease spread?
The disease is transmitted when devils bite each other's faces during fights.
The biting behaviour is a way to socialise and assert dominance which, alongside the growl-like screams, helped earn the devils their nickname.
"Our current hypothesis is that the biting doesn't only lead to the spread of tumours but it might be the starting point," explains Max Stammnitz, from the University of Cambridge, UK, who sequences tumour genomes.
"If the scarring processes for the recurring wounds are interrupted by a mutation, this might become cancerous.
It fails to heal and starts to grow out into an external tissue that may then become transmissible," Mr Stammnitz says.
Image copyright Getty Images After the bite, a solid tumour then grows around the face or neck, with the power to break bones in the jaw - killing the animal after 6 to 24 months.
To worsen the crisis, in 2014, a second transmissible cancer (DFT2) was discovered in wild populations in the south of the island.
"A second transmissible tumour in devils was extremely surprising, like lightning striking the devils twice," says Dr Hamede.
But in the last 5-6 years, some devils have developed higher tolerance to infection and even resistance without human intervention, meaning that while population numbers have not recovered to pre-DFTD numbers, the decline has at least now levelled out.
Image copyright Max Stammnitz Image caption DFTD can displace teeth or protrude through the eyes and nostrils of the animal How is natural selection helping?
"Natural selection is trying to fix the problem on its own by favouring those who can survive the tumour, so we're more hopeful these days than ever before," explains Dr Hamede.
The international team monitors eight sites across the east, south and west of the island every three months, observing multiple generations of devils.
"We have witnessed how these tumours shape the ecology of devils and how they have been evolving with their hosts in real time," Dr Hamede says.
Devils can now adapt to the transmissible cancer at the genetic and phenotypic levels - meaning the DNA and characteristics of the gene traits.
This is due to their phenotypic plasticity - the capacity of an individual organism to alter its physiology or gene expression in response to changing environmental conditions.
And what's even more unique is how rapidly this has happened - in a matter of 16 years, over just eight devil generations.
Image copyright Manuel Ruiz Aravena Image caption In some animals, tumours (inset) have completely regressed without any human intervention "It's a constant arms race of adaptation between animals and diseases.
We develop mechanisms of resistance which put pressure on pathogens to improve infection," Mr Stammnitz says.
The first of these mechanisms is tolerance and the second is resistance.
The team has found devils that have lived for up to two years with the disease, allowing for two more litters to serve as population recruitment for the disease.
In addition, 23 cases of tumour regression have been found so far - showing devils also have the capacity to fight and recover from DFTD.
Image copyright Max Stammnitz Image caption To study the animals, the researchers must first catch them What is the future for the devils?
The second largest threat to devils is roadkill, with a minimum of 350-450 devils killed each year according to Dr Fox from Save the Tasmanian Devil Programme (STDP).
Targeting hotspots, the STDP has installed fencing which sounds an alarm and warns wildlife of approaching cars.
The current trial has led to a 50% reduction in roadkill since 2015.
The number of devils hit has dropped by a quarter and Tasmanian pademelons and Bennett's wallabies have also benefited.
Image copyright Max Stammnitz Image caption Humane traps are used by the team The government has also been trialling a new app since July that members of the public can use to report sightings to help monitor populations.
So far, the app has been downloaded by over 2,000 users who have entered 6,000 reports.
"When we tracked the start of DFTD in 2003, road kill reports by the public informed our knowledge of where it had spread showing the power of citizen science to help the devils," Dr Fox adds.
In the curious case of the Tasmanian devil, there is much still to be learned about cancer biology and the evolutionary arms-race between malignant cells and their hosts.
The sheer speed of the decline has created a strong selective pressure on the world's largest remaining carnivorous marsupial but it now seems hope could lie in co-existence.
Image copyright The Children's Museum of Indianapolis Image caption Exploratory work has already identified bones from some very big dinosaurs British scientists are about to undertake one of their biggest dinosaur hunts in decades.
They are joining US and Dutch institutions in exploring what is expected to be a treasure trove of fossils in the "Badlands" of Wyoming.
The US state has yielded some of the most famous specimens ever found, and the international group will excavate one square mile (260ha) of ground.
"It's an incredible site, mind-blowing," said Prof Phil Manning.
"In the UK, we rarely see anything like this - whole dinosaurs coming out of the ground.
But that's what we've got here," the University of Manchester palaeontologist told BBC News.
"And the funding we have in place permits us to open up football pitch-sized areas at a time, if need be."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Dr Maidment and Prof Barrett: "New animals that no-one's ever seen before" The partners on the project are The Children's Museum of Indianapolis; the Naturalis Biodiversity Center in Leiden, Netherlands; and London's Natural History Museum.
Prof Manning and Manchester colleague Dr Victoria Egerton are Extraordinary Scientists in Residence at the Children's Museum and will act as lead researchers, but such is the scale of this endeavour that a team of more than 100 experts will be required.
The project has been dubbed "Mission Jurassic" - a reference to the major geological period in which the rocks to be studied were laid down.
Image copyright The Children's Museum of Indianapolis Image caption The Children's Museum has leased one square mile of Wyoming ranch land for the project In this particular part of North Wyoming, the scientists will get access to a unit, or formation, known as the Morrison.
"These were deposited from about 157 million to 145 million years ago," explained the NHM's Dr Susannah Maidment.
"The formation has been extensively studied to the south, producing all of your favourite dinosaurs that you could name when you were seven - the likes of Stegosaurus, Brachiosaurus, Brontosaurus and Allosaurus.
But we'll be in the north, which has been much less studied, and which it's suggested might hold slightly different creatures.
"So we're hoping to find animals that have never been seen before."
Image copyright The Children's Museum of Indianapolis Image caption The site will likely keep scientists occupied for the next 20 years Already, there have been some exploratory investigations in the area.
This early work, carried out by Prof Manning and colleagues, has merely heightened the anticipation.
Several tonnes of bones were recovered, including fossils from two giant sauropod dinosaurs - a 24m-long Brachiosaurus and a 30m-long Diplodocus.
"We've got chicken-sized theropods as well," said Prof Manning, of the familiar bipedal dinosaurs out of which modern birds are descended.
"I'm hoping if we can find more of this material, we might learn something about the evolution of flight."
Image copyright The Children's Museum of Indianapolis Image caption The Indianapolis institution is the world's largest children's museum The dig team will work through a range of ancient environments, including a river and floodplain setting; and another that appears to record a marine history.
"So, this is not just about dinosaurs," said the NHM's Prof Paul Barrett.
"Obviously, they're the charismatic creatures, but we're also interested in everything that's living alongside the dinosaurs, to build up a complete picture of that ecosystem.
Things like ancient crocodiles, lizards, turtles, fish, clams, plants - we'll be taking specialists with us so we can delve deeply into that picture."
Prof Barrett said Mission Jurassic was the largest expedition of its type for the NHM since a venture in Niger in the 1980s.
The institution - as the UK's premier fossil display centre - hopes many of the specimens that are discovered can be brought to London.
Although the NHM has an extraordinary collection of fossils, it concedes that its North American compilation could be stronger.
One excellent opportunity the project will afford is educational - both for UK PhD students, who will be able to work in the field; but also for the public.
There are plans to livestream events around the digs so that people can get a first-hand insight of what it's like to discover fossils that are totally new to science.
Image copyright The Children's Museum of Indianapolis Image caption The areas investigated so far have some impressive dinosaur tracks Anyone wishing to follow the project should keep an eye on the Dinosaur Hub on the Natural History Museum's website.
Progress will also be signal on social media with the hashtag #MissionJurassic.
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright Getty Images It's Friday lunchtime and you've found the perfect dress for that party on Saturday night but you're stuck at your desk.
No problem, because after a couple of clicks, it's in your basket and on its way to your home.
This is the joy of online shopping, and our love of it continues to grow.
In 2017, online sales increased by 15.9% to 59.8bn in comparison with 2016, while in-store sales saw a jump of only 2.4%.
But what price does getting something this fast cost the environment?
Green campaigners argue our demand for getting something delivered at speed - whether it's Amazon Prime or Premier Delivery on ASOS - is adding to carbon emissions.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Online sales increased by 15.9% in 2017 in comparison with the previous year "Transport is responsible for a huge chunk of the UK's carbon emissions and the levels are actually increasing," Muna Suleiman from Friends of the Earth says.
"Delivery companies are a significant part of this.
"We've seen some good progress on use of cleaner vehicles such as cargo bikes and electric vans, but we really need to see green deliveries becoming the norm."
How are delivery companies reducing emissions?
Each year, the Royal Mail delivers around 1.8 billion parcels - by foot, bicycle and gas guzzling vehicles.
The company says it's committed to reducing its carbon emissions further.
This week, Royal Mail is introducing eight e-trikes into its fleet.
Image copyright Royal Mail Image caption E-trikes are powered by a combination of pedal and battery power The vehicles are powered by a combination of pedal and battery power and will be used to make deliveries by posties in Cambridge, Sutton Coldfield and Stratford in London.
It's part of a six-month trial and if successful could see the scheme extended.
"Our e-trikes are zero emission vehicles," David Gold, Royal Mail's director of public affairs and policy, explains.
"The 48v lithium battery is charged overnight by mains power but is supplemented by solar panels on the roof of the vehicle.
"Regenerative braking also helps to power the bike."
Image copyright Royal Mail Image caption The electric trikes will deliver parcels in Cambridge, Sutton Coldfield and Stratford in London Royal Mail already has a fleet of 100 electric vehicles and has announced plans to expand it.
"We have the largest 'feet on the street' network of 90,000 postmen and women, and we have reduced carbon emissions by 29% since 2005, but we want to find even more environmentally friendly ways to deliver to 30 million homes across the UK," David Gold adds.
Next month, an Ultra Low Emission Zone will be introduced in central London to try and reduce air pollution.
It means some of the most-polluting vehicles will be charged for entering the city centre.
The government wants other towns and cities to follow the capital's lead, and many delivery companies say they're already prepared for it.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption On 8 April an Ultra Low Emission Zone is introduced in central London Investing in 'greener' alternatives Yodel is one of them.
It says it's making "significant investments" to reduce its carbon footprint.
It delivers around 145 million parcels each year in the UK - in its peak period it says it delivers around one million a day.
"We have invested in technology to calculate the most efficient routes and evaluate our drivers' driving style to further reduce our carbon footprint," Yodel's CEO Andrew Peeler says.
"We've been working with cycle couriers in a number of towns for many years and are introducing electric to our fleet this Spring, while also trialling compressed natural gas powered trucks."
DPD says it's changing the vehicles it uses in the future too.
The company normally orders one thousand diesel Mercedes Sprinter vans every year, but says it's now only going to purchase electric in future.
Image copyright DPD Image caption DPD says it will only purchase electric vehicles in the future It's already got three all-electric micro-depots and is aiming to have eight in London.
In a statement DPD said: "We see ourselves at the forefront of this technology but can only go as fast as the vehicle manufacturers allow."
Hermes is also going down the electric vehicle route - at the moment it's got 32 electric vans operating in London.
Additionally, the company, which delivers 335 million parcels in the UK each year, claims to be the first in the market to use bio methane fuel to power 30 vehicles.
It says it's placed the largest opening order of thirty Compressed Natural Gas tractor units after a year-long trial.
The vehicles now make up nearly 20% of the 166 tractor units in the fleet.
Image copyright Hermes Image caption Hermes has 32 electric vans operating in London Delivery companies 'need to go further' Although delivery companies are starting to make changes, some critics say they need to do more.
"We need to see delivery companies switch their entire fleet of vehicles to ones powered by clean energy," Doug Parr, chief scientist for Greenpeace UK, says.
"To be truly clean, these would need to be charged by renewable power rather than fossil fuel."
It's not just about how the vehicles are powered though.
"It's essential they're constructed in a way that keeps their environmental footprint as small as possible, and so that their components can be re-used and recycled at the end of their lives," Doug says.
"If an electric car were manufactured and used where the main source of energy was coal this would seriously dent its green credentials."
The campaign group also says it wants to see more bicycles and e-bikes used to reduce emissions and pollution.
'I'd never considered my fashion carbon footprint' Hannah Morgan admits she was addicted to shopping online.
She'd spend up to 9,000 a year buying clothes online - returning most of them.
Image copyright Hannah Morgan Image caption Hannah's decided to stop buying clothes to cut her carbon emissions "I knew I was likely to return 80% - 100% of my order, and with free delivery and convenient time-slots to choose from, my online shopping addiction felt harmless.
"At no point had I considered the carbon footprint of each of my orders."
Hannah gave up buying clothes online at the start of 2019 after watching Stacey Dooley's latest documentary on fast fashion.
"I was in shock over the environmental impact the fashion industry is having, while simultaneously trawling through my ASOS app unconsciously adding things to my basket, ready for instant purchase and free next day delivery."
Hannah has tried to stop the temptation of buying by deleting shopping apps and unsubscribing to all marketing emails.
"It's early days but I'm enjoying seeing things differently and am hopefully making a small but positive impact in the process."
Campaigners say consumers don't have to take drastic action like Hannah in order to cut emissions.
"By choosing companies using greener delivery methods you can show that the consumer demand to cut emissions is there", Muna Suleiman from Friends of the Earth, says.
"If you have a 'click and collect' location within walking distance of your home or work this can also cut down on the number of miles driven by each van."
What about the big online retailers?
Whilst Amazon doesn't directly deliver its parcels, it has recently committed to make "all Amazon shipments net zero carbon, with 50% of all shipments net zero by 2030".
In a statement it says: "With improvements in electric vehicles, aviation bio fuels, reusable packaging, and renewable energy, for the first time we can now see a path to net zero carbon delivery of shipments to customers."
But Doug Parr from Greenpeace UK says companies like Amazon could impose "stricter standards" on the delivery firms they use.
"Responsibility for this goes right up the chain of command - Amazon is generating the business so Amazon should be asking how its delivery agents are making those deliveries clean.
"If they wanted to impose standards they could."
Is click and collect the answer?
Whilst our appetite for online shopping is in no way declining, click-and-collect services could be one way to cut emissions.
Image copyright Alamy Customers collect the goods at a local shop or designated pick-up point, like a newsagent or garage, when it's convenient for them.
It's not just convenient for the consumer but with deliveries going to one place, emissions are instantly reduced.
However, it could be entirely counter productive, if the customer takes their diesel or petrol car to pick that parcel up.
Image copyright BLOODHOUND LSR We're back!
Like a phoenix from the ashes, Bloodhound has risen anew, looking better than ever.
After 10 years of cutting-edge research and development, building and testing the world's most advanced straight-line racing car, the old Bloodhound company finally ran out of money at the end of last year.
Despite some serious commercial interest in the project, the stop-start nature of sponsorship funding finally did us in.
What we really needed to find was an investor who could underwrite the cashflow between sponsorship deals... With literally just a few days left before Bloodhound went to the scrap yard, a lovely Yorkshireman called Ian Warhurst stepped forward and bought the car.
It was the middle of December last year when Ian turned up with the best Christmas present ever - a supersonic future for Bloodhound!
Ian is a mechanical engineer and, having just taken early retirement after selling his business, was looking for something to keep him busy.
A new World Land Speed Record seemed like just the thing.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Ian Warhurst: "My kids kept saying I should buy a fast car, so I bought the fastest" The new team is called Bloodhound LSR (for Land Speed Record, of course) and the look of the car has been totally changed by its striking new red and white colour scheme.
The first time I spoke to Ian, he asked me what colour I thought the car should be.
I suggested some strong primary colours, such as red or blue, which would stand out against the dried mud surface of the desert track.
Almost as an afterthought, I mentioned that a base colour of white would also be OK, as it was the best colour to keep the car cool in the sunshine, but it wouldn't be my first choice.
I'm SO glad that he didn't listen - the white looks just terrific.
Image caption Cool and good-looking So what happens now?
Very sensibly, Ian has broken the new "operational" phase of Bloodhound's life into two distinct parts.
The first target is to set a new World Land Speed Record (currently standing at 763mph), after which we can review the results and make a plan to attack Bloodhound's ultimate goal of 1,000mph.
In preparation for our first target of a new record around 800mph, we want to take the existing car out to South Africa to conduct some high-speed testing.
"High speed" in this context is anywhere north of 400mph to 500mph, which will allow us to assess aerodynamic performance, measure the interaction of the solid metal wheels with the dry lakebed/desert surface, test and develop the parachute braking systems, and so on.
The next obvious question is when will this happen?
Ian's simple answer is: "As soon as possible!"
The first task is to complete the move into our new home at SGS Berkeley Green University Technical College, which is near Gloucester.
The car moved into the modestly titled "UK Land Speed Record Centre" last week (the video is here if you haven't seen it already), so Mark Chapman and his engineering team can begin preparing for high-speed running pretty much straight away.
However, there are lots of other things to sort out before we can fix a date for the tests.
The track in South Africa is in excellent condition and mostly ready to go.
After nearly a decade of work by the local community, under the direction of the Northern Cape Provincial Government, Hakskeen Pan offers us the best-prepared high-speed racing surface in history.
Now we have to complete all of the paperwork to use government-owned land in someone else's country.
As part of this, we need to provide evidence that we can run the car safely without damaging the local environment.
It will help that we've done this before, even if it was over 20 years ago!
Moving day The South Africans are very keen to get Bloodhound out there on its new track, so they will do everything they can to get the paperwork completed quickly.
In some cases, we should be able to use the paperwork we've prepared previously just by changing the name to "Bloodhound LSR", but I'm sure it won't all be that easy.
Equally important is all of the export paperwork.
It's no real surprise that exporting state-of-the-art military equipment (like our Rolls-Royce jet engine) attracts a lot of attention from the organisations who control that sort of thing.
While the regulations controlling international arms shipments were never drafted with the Land Speed Record in mind, we are using military-spec hardware, so they still apply to us!
Image copyright BLOODHOUND LSR Once all the paperwork is sorted, we can get the car out to Hakskeen Pan and start doing the high-speed testing.
For the first batch of high-speed tests, the car will be jet-powered, using a Rolls-Royce EJ200 engine as found in the RAF's Typhoon jet fighters.
Without the additional assistance from the Nammo hybrid rocket system (still under development), this jet-only car will not reach supersonic speeds in the 10-12 miles available on Hakskeen pan, but it will easily reach our target of 400mph to 500mph (and maybe a little faster!)
during testing.
With Bloodhound back on track for a new Land Speed Record, we're all hugely excited about the future.
SGS Berkeley Green UTC is an ideal new home for us and the car looks great in its new colour scheme, which is generating a lot of commercial interest in the future of the project.
Now our task looks fairly clear.
As our new owner Ian Warhurst put it: "It's my ambition to let Bloodhound off the leash and see just how fast it can go."
Bring it on.
Image copyright Peter Jolly/REX/Shutterstock Jo Cameron only realises her skin is burning when she smells singed flesh.
She often burns her arms on the oven, but feels no pain to warn her.
That's because she is one of only two people in the world known to have a rare genetic mutation.
It means she feels virtually no pain, and never feels anxious or afraid.
It wasn't until she was 65 she realised she was different - when doctors couldn't believe she didn't need painkillers after a serious operation.
When she had surgery on her hand, doctors warned her she should expect pain afterwards.
Image copyright Jo Cameron Image caption Jo Cameron (left) was 65 when she realised she was different When she felt nothing, her anaesthetist - Dr Devjit Srivastava - sent her to pain geneticists at University College London (UCL) and Oxford University.
After tests, they found gene mutations which meant that she did not feel pain like most people.
Not just 'incredibly healthy' Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The woman who feels no pain Jo, from Whitebridge, near Inverness, told the BBC Scotland news website that doctors didn't believe her when she said she wouldn't need pain relief after surgery.
She said: "We had banter before theatre when I guaranteed I wouldn't need painkillers.
"When he found I hadn't had any, he checked my medical history and found I had never asked for painkillers."
That's when she was referred to specialists in England.
Image copyright Jo Cameron Image caption Jo, pictured here with her husband and mother, didn't realise she was different Once diagnosed, Jo realised that she wasn't just "incredibly healthy", as she'd believed.
She said: "Looking back, I realise I hadn't needed painkillers, but if you don't need them you don't question why you don't.
"You are what you are, until someone points it out you don't question it.
I was just a happy soul who didn't realise there was anything different about me."
She didn't even feel pain during childbirth, recalling: "It was just strange, but I didn't have pain.
It was quite enjoyable really."
Jo does the Scotch Bonnet chilli challenge Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Along with her husband Jim and her anaesthetist Dr Devjit Srivastava, Jo took part in a chilli challenge.
While the two men react to the heat of the chilli, Jo keeps smiling - unfazed by the spice.
Jo wouldn't change anything, but thinks pain is important and says: "Pain is there for a reason, it warns you - you hear alarm bells.
"It would be nice to have warning when something's wrong - I didn't know my hip was gone until it was really gone, I physically couldn't walk with my arthritis."
Doctors believe she might also be able to heal more quickly than normal.
This particular combination of genes also makes her forgetful and less anxious.
"It's called the happy gene or forgetful gene.
I have been annoying people by being happy and forgetful all my life - I've got an excuse now," she said.
Could Jo's genes hold the key to helping others?
Jo said recently she had a "minor bump" in the car, but was unmoved by what many would have found an upsetting experience.
"I don't have adrenalin.
You should have that warning, it's part of being human, but I wouldn't change it."
The other driver, she said, was "shaking like anything", but she was able to stay calm.
"I don't get that reaction... it's not brave, the fear just doesn't happen."
The researchers say it's possible there are more people like Jo.
"One out of two patients after surgery today still experiences moderate to severe pain, despite all advances in pain killer medications.
It remains to be seen if any new treatments could be developed based on our findings," said Dr Srivastava.
"The findings point towards a novel painkiller discovery that could potentially offer post-surgical pain relief and also accelerate wound healing.
We hope this could help the 330 million patients who undergo surgery globally every year."
You might also like: Jo's case is the subject of a paper published in the British Journal of Anaesthesia, written by Dr Srivastava and Dr James Cox, of UCL.
Dr Cox said: "People with rare insensitivity to pain can be valuable to medical research as we learn how their genetic mutations impact how they experience pain, so we would encourage anyone who does not experience pain to come forward.
"We hope that with time, our findings might contribute to clinical research for post-operative pain and anxiety, and potentially chronic pain, PTSD and wound healing."
Image caption Helen, Will and their four housemates took on the challenge Student housemates from Loughborough University have been challenged to live more sustainably, with weekly challenges set by the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme.
How did they get on?
Plastics challenge The students were challenged to reduce their plastic use by 75%, which they found difficult.
"It's hard when you're on a student budget, getting anything not wrapped in plastic is so much more expensive," Amy explained.
Plastics guru Lucy Siegle gave them a helping hand, swapping their countless shower bottles for sustainable versions of shampoo, toothpaste and soap bars.
She also gave them reusable items like coffee cups and cutlery and told them to change their shopping habits.
Image caption Amy Fitzgerald and Jay Maheswaran were tasked with reducing their use of plastics But Amy said they found supermarkets a particular problem as "everything was wrapped in plastic".
"And going to the butcher's was more expensive than getting pre-packaged stuff," she added.
At the start of the week, Ms Siegle weighed the plastic in the students' home, which totalled 2.8lb (1.3kg) - a figure she described as "rather a lot".
With her advice, the students reduced it to 1.5lb.
Image caption Ms Siegle was not pleased with the house's reliance on clingfilm, and confiscated their roll "I'm still really pleased with them," she said.
"Especially as when I saw all the bottles they [initially] had in their bathroom, I nearly gave up."
Ms Siegle said she thought the group had adopted the mindset shift really quickly, experiencing outrage over everything being plastic.
She urged them to be more militant by unwrapping products at the supermarket checkout and leaving the plastic behind to make the point.
"We need to take a stand," she said.
Fashion challenge Marcus Rudd, one of the housemates, had hoped that his shopping habits - buying 10 to 15 T-shirts a year, combined with some designer pieces - were environmentally friendly.
Then he learned that it took 3,000 litres of water on average to make only one T-shirt.
The fashion industry - which makes 100 billion garments each year - is a major contributor to greenhouse gases, water pollution, air pollution and the overuse of water.
Image caption Marcus was won over by charity and vintage shops, picking out this striking jacket It is exacerbated, MPs say, by so-called "fast fashion" - inexpensive clothing produced rapidly by mass-market retailers.
Sustainable stylist Alice Wilby taught the students to reuse, repair and recycle, encouraging them to swap fast fashion for second-hand.
She challenged Marcus and his housemate Goby Chan, who regularly buys clothes she does not wear, to make a new outfit from old clothes to model at London Fashion Week.
"We buy so much stuff and half of it sits unworn in the back of the wardrobe," Ms Wilby said.
"Before we buy anything else it's great to see what you've already got, and fall back in love with your things."
Image caption Marcus and Goby modelled recycled clothes for a Mother of Pearl show at London Fashion Week Goby enjoyed the challenge.
"I was shocked by what you can do by reusing a garment and making it into something new which is actually really fashionable.
I actually love it."
And Ms Wilby said they did well.
"Considering Marcus had never set foot in a second-hand shop before - and thought they were smelly places with clothes you would never want to buy - by the end of the week he was finding pieces he really loved.
That was a really great victory.
"These two shop a lot, and over the past month [since the challenge] he has only bought one item."
Energy challenge The students took dramatic action to reduce their energy usage - and it worked.
They used much less heating - switching it off at night; wearing jumpers, coats and blankets; and generally keeping the house a little bit cooler.
It made a huge difference to their gas usage - cutting it by a whopping 48%.
They also lowered their electricity usage by 15%.
This added up to a 44% carbon saving - around a tonne of carbon in all.
"It was a massive effort - it was freezing in our house," said Marcus Golby.
Image caption The students were able to drastically cut their home's energy bills "[Before] we weren't communicating when things were going on and going off, so you ended up with the heating on the majority of the time," explained Amy.
"This month we're having more of a balance of keeping warm and keeping the heating off when we're out."
Dr Rosie Robison, an energy expert from Anglia Ruskin University, said it raised wider questions on whether the focus should be on individuals using less energy or the "wider responsibilities for landlords or homeowners, housebuilders and government for thinking about how our homes can require less fossil fuel in the first place".
Food challenge A third of all food made for human consumption is wasted every year - costing the average UK family 700 each year, estimates suggest.
The students were challenged to cut their food waste by 50% and move to the planetary health diet - a plant-based diet with small amounts of meat and fish.
Image caption Helen and Will cooked vegetable bolognese for the house, as part of adopting the planetary health diet for a week Dr Elliot Woolley, a senior lecturer in sustainable manufacturing at Loughborough University, encouraged them to store their food more carefully to stop it becoming spoiled, plan their meals and prepare the right amount of food for the people eating.
He said that they found the challenge hard, but had reduced their food waste from 8.1lb to 6.8lb, which he described as "a fairly small reduction".
Image caption The contents of the students' food waste bin, before the challenge Dr Woolley added: "One of the things it shows is even when you're aware of the problem and you're trying to reduce waste, it's so ingrained into how we waste and use food that actually we continue with these large amounts."
Housemate Will Smith said their waste totals were boosted by food bought before the challenge which had started to go off, but admitted: "I don't think we did too well."
But he said it had changed his mindset and he would continue trying not to waste food in future.
The Sustainable Students series was produced and directed by Owen Kean and Tom Yeates, with research by Curtis Gallant and Simon O'Leary.
Follow the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme on Facebook and Twitter - and see more of our stories here.
Image copyright Thomas Ronge/AWI Image caption The history of the Antarctic Ice Sheet is recorded in its icebergs It sounds a bit like sitting in the middle of the road when there's a queue of juggernauts coming straight at you.
This is a little overplayed but it's kind of what an international group of scientists has just set out to do.
The researchers want to position themselves in the centre of "Iceberg Alley" off the tip of the Antarctic Peninsula and drill into the seafloor.
Huge blocks of ice are likely to come drifting by in the process.
It's hoped the sediments the researchers recover will tell us something of how the White Continent has changed in the past and how its kilometres-thick ice sheet might react in the future in what's projected to be a much warmer world.
Expedition 382 of the International Ocean Discovery Program (IODP) left Punta Arenas in Chile on Monday.
Using the drill ship, the Joides Resolution (JR), the team will core a number of seafloor locations right in the middle of Iceberg Alley.
The scientists are looking for the "rafted debris" that's been dropped by giant bergs as they head north from the Peninsula towards the South Atlantic.
This detritus of dust, dirt, and rock was originally scraped off the continent by the ice when it was part of a glacier, before it broke away to become an iceberg.
And through the wonder of modern geochemistry, it's possible to date this material and even to tie it to specific locations in Antarctica.
Image copyright Thomas Ronge/AWI Image caption The Joides Resolution in Punta Arenas before heading out on Expedition 382 The really helpful thing from the scientists' point of view is that they only need go to the alley to get a very broad view of past Antarctic behaviour.
It works like this: Bergs when they calve will bump anti-clockwise around the coast in the direction taken by near-shore currents.
But when they reach the Peninsula - that's when they encounter the big clockwise flow of water known as the Antarctic Circumpolar Current.
Image copyright Thomas Ronge/AWI Image caption Geochemists can date berg debris and identify its origin on the continent The bergs are then entrained and head north.
And just standing in the middle of this busy highway, as the JR now intends to do, means you get to sample the widest range of material dropped from historical bergs on their slow drift up into the South Atlantic.
In very simple terms: the more ice blocks that passed through the alley in any particular period in the past, the more unstable the Antarctic was likely to have been during that time.
In other words, the thickest layers of dropped stones and dust deposited on the ocean floor should relate to the warmest phases of ancient Antarctica.
There's quite a bit of oversimplification in this story, not least the recognition that the alley is dominated by bergs from the East of the continent - but the general picture holds.
Image copyright Tim Fulton/IODP/JRSO Image caption Scientists are keen to understand what happened when CO2 levels were last at 400ppm The JR expects to pull up hundreds of metres of sediment core covering the past 20 million years.
"A key interval of interest will be the Late Pliocene Warm Period (about 3-4 million years ago)," said expedition co-lead investigator Prof Maureen Raymo from the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University, US.
"This was when carbon dioxide was 400 parts per million (ppm) in the atmosphere - approximately similar to what it is today.
I've spent a lot of time trying to work out what global sea-level was doing at that time because obviously that would speak directly to the question of whether East Antarctica loses mass or gains mass in a slightly warmer climate."
The latter is possible if a warmer atmosphere triggers more snowfall.
Image copyright Clayton Furman/IODP/JRSO Image caption Expedition 379 was constantly harassed by icebergs Another period of keen interest is that of the Early Pleistocene - from 2.5 million to 800,000 years ago.
It's a phase in Earth history when Ice Ages on the planet are known to have come and gone on roughly 41,000-year cycles.
This had something to do with the shifting nature of the Earth's orbit around the Sun, but has yet to be fully explained.
"I've proposed that Antarctica didn't transition to the ice sheet we see today until about 800,000 years ago, and prior to that there were maybe many sectors of the ice sheet that looked like modern Greenland with the ice margin on land," Prof Raymo told BBC News.
Today's Antarctica has its glaciers terminating in the sea.
"We'll definitely get sediments from this time," she added.
Image copyright Pete Bucktrout/BAS Image caption Many blocks on Iceberg Alley eventually arrive at the British territory of South Georgia If the current cruise is focussed on past behaviour in East Antarctica, a complementary drilling effort should fill in much of the narrative in the West of the continent.
The JR has only recently finished drilling sediment cores in the Amundsen Sea area.
IODP Expedition 379 cored to a depth of 800m, which likely gets back to the Late Miocene, or about 6 million year ago.
"This is the sector of the Antarctic Ice Sheet - more than any other area - that is changing before our eyes," explained 379's co chief scientist, Dr Julia Wellner from the University of Houston.
"While we have some ideas on why this is happening, it's not well understood yet; we've only been watching it for a few decades.
"So that's why we need these longer-term records, to get a real insight on what's occurring now and how things could change in the future.
"But it's not easy.
There were times on our cruise when we thought we were in Iceberg Alley because there were so many bergs about, and every time one approaches you have to abandon your hole, wait for the berg to pass, and then return to resume drilling."
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Since the explosion at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in 1986, an area of more than 4,000 square kilometres has been abandoned.
That could be about to change, as Victoria Gill discovered during a week-long trip to the exclusion zone.
"This place is more than half of my life," says Gennady Laptev.
The broad-shouldered Ukrainian scientist is smiling wistfully as we stand on the now dry ground of what was Chernobyl nuclear power plant's cooling pond.
"I was only 25 when I started my work here as a liquidator.
Now, I'm almost 60."
There were thousands of liquidators - workers who came here as part of the mammoth, dangerous clean-up operation following the 1986 explosion.
The worst nuclear accident in history.
Gennady shows me a coffee table-sized platform, installed here to collect dust.
This reservoir's bed dried out when the pumps taking water from the nearby river were finally switched off in 2014; 14 years after the remaining three reactors there were shut down.
Analysing dust for radioactive contamination is just a small part of the decades-long study of this vast, abandoned area.
The accident turned this landscape into a giant, contaminated laboratory, where hundreds of scientists have worked to find out how an environment recovers from nuclear catastrophe.
The experiment that turned into a global catastrophe Image caption The damaged reactor is now entombed by a steel "confinement structure" as cranes dismantle radioactive remnants within On 26 April, 1986, at 1:23AM, engineers cut power to some systems at Chernobyl nuclear power plant's number 4 reactor.
It was a critical point in a test to understand what would happen during a blackout.
What engineers did not know was that the reactor was already unstable.
The cut-off slowed turbines that drove cooling water to the reactor.
As less water turned to more steam, the pressure inside built.
By the time operators realised what was happening and tried to shut down the reactor, it was too late.
A steam explosion blew the lid off the reactor, exposing the core to the atmosphere.
Two people in the plant were killed and, as air fuelled a fire that burned for 10 days, a cloud of radioactive smoke and dust was carried on the wind around Europe.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Chernobyl's post-human landscape BBC News Our World: In the Shadow of Chernobyl - Watch Victoria Gill's full report from the exclusion zone on Saturday and Sunday, 16 and 17 February, at 2130 GMT on the BBC News Channel, and afterwards on BBC iPlayer.
Image copyright G Laptev Image caption In 1986, Gennady Laptev (on the right) flew by helicopter daily to collect soil and water samples from around the damaged reactor The first emergency workers rushed in as lethal smoke billowed out.
Of 134 who were diagnosed with acute radiation sickness, 28 died within months.
At least 19 have died since.
Gennady, an environmental scientist with the Ukrainian HydroMeteorological Institute, started work in the zone just three months after the evacuation.
"We used to fly in by helicopter every day from Kiev," he explains, "to collect water and soil samples.
"The important thing then was to understand the extent of the contamination - to draw the first maps of the exclusion zone."
Today, that zone spans Ukraine and Belarus.
Covering more than 4,000 sq km - more than twice the size of London.
Every community within a 30km radius of the plant was evacuated and abandoned; no-one was allowed to return here to live.
In a forgotten, outer portion of the exclusion zone, people were quietly allowed to return home a few months after the disaster.
Unlike the "30km zone", no checkpoints prevent entry to this semi-abandoned area.
Narodichi, a town of more than 2,500 people, is within that more-distant zone.
Strict rules govern this officially contaminated district; exclusion zone land must not be cultivated to produce food and it cannot be developed.
Image caption Narodichi is an officially contaminated town within the outer portion of the exclusion zone Today, though, this part of Ukraine is not easily delineated into two categories - contaminated or clean.
Research has shown that Chernobyl's aftermath is more complicated, and the landscape here much stranger - and more interesting - than the stringent "do not touch" rules in Narodichi would imply.
Fear of radiation could actually be hurting the people of Narodichi far more than the radiation itself.
'We're getting less radiation here than on the plane' Over Gennady's shoulder, I can see the nuclear power plant - less than a kilometre away from the reservoir bed we're standing on.
Gleaming in the sunshine is the huge protective steel "New Safe Confinement" that now entombs unit 4.
It was slid over the top of the accident's epicentre in 2016.
Beneath it, robotic cranes are dismantling 33-year-old, radioactive wreckage.
Prof Jim Smith from the UK's University of Portsmouth, a colleague of Gennady's, is a scientist who has studied the aftermath of the disaster since 1990.
Here on one of his numerous research trips to the zone, he shows me a dosimeter - a black plastic phone-sized gadget he carries throughout the visit.
It measures the external dose of radiation he is getting from the environment.
Atoms of the nuclear fuel dust that were scattered here by the 1986 explosion are spontaneously breaking down.
They are giving out high-energy rays as they do so, and Jim's dosimeter is detecting the dose of those that we are receiving every hour.
Image caption The dosimeter calculates the radiation dose we receive every hour The readings are in units (called microsieverts) that only make sense to me in the context of other relatively "radioactive activities".
At one point in the middle of the flight to Kiev - for example - his dosimeter read 1.8 microsieverts per hour.
"It's currently 0.6," Jim says.
"So that's about [a third] of what we were getting on the flight."
With the infamous power plant visible in the background, I'm incredulous.
But, Jim explains, we live on a radioactive planet - natural radioactivity is all around us.
"It comes from the Sun's rays, from the food we eat, from the Earth," he says.
That is why, up at 12,000m on an airliner, with less shielding from Earth's atmosphere, we receive a higher dose.
"Yes, the exclusion zone is contaminated," he tells me, "but if we would put it on a map of radiation dose worldwide - only the small 'hotspots' would stand out.
"Natural radioactivity is all around us - it varies from country to country, from place to place.
Most of the area of the exclusion zone gives rise to lower radiation dose rates than many areas of natural radioactivity worldwide."
'You don't want to be in the hotspots for long' While the boundary of the exclusion zone has not changed, the landscape has - almost beyond recognition.
Where people were forced out, nature has moved in.
Wilderness combined with abandoned buildings, farms and villages gives a sense of the post-apocalyptic.
Jim and his colleagues spend their days here collecting samples and planting cameras and audio recorders, which silently gather information about what wildlife inhabits this post-human place, and how the radiation affects it.
On the second day of our trip to the zone, I follow the team into the Red Forest.
This is an exclusion zone hotspot that, because of the direction of the winds in 1986, took the brunt of the shower of radioactive material.
We put on dust suits to avoid contaminating our clothing.
In the forest, Jim's dosimeter reads 35 - almost 60 times the external dose we were getting in the cooling pond.
"We don't want to be here for too long," says Jim.
He and the team gather their soil samples swiftly, take some photographs and head back to the car.
'The horses are adapting to the zone' Image caption Wild horses were released into the zone as part of an experiment to reduce the risk of wildfires In the abandoned village of Burayakovka - just over 10km from the power plant - it is a very different approach.
Jim and the team take their time exploring the area.
The dosimeter reads 1.0 - still less than on the flight.
Inside one small, crumbling but still colourful wooden house, the sad truth of what people so suddenly lost here is apparent.
A coat still slung over the arm of a chair is now covered in three decades of dust.
But what people left behind - through farming and gardening - has turned into a strangely rich habitat and provisions for wild animals.
Long-term studies have shown that there is more wildlife in the abandoned villages than anywhere else in the zone.
Brown bears, lynx and wild boar are seen roaming here.
Dr Maryna Shkvyria, a researcher based at Kiev Zoo, has spent years tracking and studying the larger mammals that moved in when people moved out.
Image copyright TREE Research Project Image caption Camera trap images reveal that lynx now roam the exclusion zone There are studies suggesting that birds in the most contaminated areas show signs of damage to their DNA, but Maryna's work is adding to a catalogue of research that suggests wildlife is thriving throughout much of the exclusion zone.
Chernobyl's wolves, she says, are a particularly striking example.
"After 15 years of studying them, we have a lot of information about their behaviour," Maryna explains.
"And the Chernobyl wolf is one of the most natural wolves in Ukraine."
By "natural", she means there is very little "human food" in the wolves' diet.
"Usually, wolves are around settlements," Maryna explains.
"They can eat livestock, crops and waste food - even pets."
But not here where wolves hunt wild prey.
Chernobyl's wolves feed on deer and even catch fish.
Some images - caught by camera traps - reveal gentler dietary habits.
Wolves have been snapped eating fruit from around trees that used to be in people's orchards.
There is one group of animals that has made the zone its home and that - strictly speaking- should not really be here.
Image copyright TREE Research Project Image caption Lack of hunting may have contributed to the success of Chernobyl's wolves In 1998, Ukrainian zoologists released a herd of 30 endangered Przewalski's horses in the zone.
The apparent aim was for the horses to graze overgrowth and reduce the risk of wildfire.
There are now about 60 of them - in herds dispersed across Ukraine and Belarus.
They are native to the open plains of Mongolia, so forests peppered with abandoned buildings should not be ideal habitat.
"But they're really using the forests," explains Maryna.
"We even put camera traps in old barns and buildings and they're using them to [shelter] from mosquitoes and heat.
"They even lay down and sleep inside - they're adapting to the zone."
'You can have the cherry vodka; I made it' Wildlife might be making the most of what's gradually become a post-human nature reserve, but not every village was left for animals to claim.
Some people still live here - deep in the 30km zone.
Image caption Maria (right) and her neighbour are part of a community of just 15 self-settlers in the zone who grow their own food and make their own vodka On my fourth day here, we visit Maria's house.
She is outside in her garden when we arrive at the gate, and - as I try to introduce myself in a few stumbling words of Ukrainian - she interrupts me by wrapping me in a warm hug and kissing me on the cheek.
Today is her 78th birthday.
She is expecting us and has prepared a celebratory breakfast.
Maria ushers me, Jim, his colleague Mike, and our interpreter Denis to a wooden table under a fruit tree.
It is a gloriously sunny day and pleasantly warm even at 9am.
Maria starts to bring food - fatty salted bacon, a whole fish, sliced sausage and steaming hot, home-grown potatoes.
There are two bottles of what appear to be spirits - one colourless, one dark red.
"If you don't like this vodka, you can have the cherry one - I made it," she says.
Maria and her neighbours make up a tiny community of just 15.
Each of these self-settlers, as they are known, travelled back across a patchily enforced exclusion zone boundary and reclaimed their homes in 1986.
Image caption Signs bearing the names of abandoned communities make up a memorial in the town of Chernobyl Almost every family forced to leave here was given an apartment in a nearby town or city.
For Maria and her mother, though, this cottage, with the garden wrapped around it, was home.
They refused to abandon it.
"We weren't allowed to come back, but I followed my mum," Maria recalls.
"She was 88 back then.
She kept saying: 'I will go, I will go'.
I just followed her."
There are about 200 self-settlers in total living in the zone and, for an ageing population cut off from the rest of the country, Maria says life is not easy.
"We're all very old," she tells me.
"And we take each day as it comes.
"I feel full of life when my children come to visit me from Kiev.
Otherwise, it's not so interesting to live here.
But you know this is our land - our motherland.
It's irreplaceable."
Maria's mobile phone rings and I am struck by the incongruity of our diminutive babushka hostess, standing in her exclusion zone garden, apparently trying to wrap up swiftly a call from her daughter.
She is busy with her visitors from the BBC!
Remote as it is, this is a close community.
As we sit in the garden (knocking back cherry vodka at our Maria's repeated insistence) her neighbour arrives with a birthday gift.
She sits on the bench near the garden gate; she can't walk too far.
The self-settlers are a tiny minority, though.
Most people who so suddenly lost their homes here have no hope of coming back.
Image caption Pripyat was home to 50,000 people before the accident Most of them lived in Pripyat - a true Soviet dream town, purpose-built for the power plant workers.
Just a few kilometres from the plant itself, this town of 50,000 people was emptied overnight.
No-one was allowed to return; it is now the archetype of a 20th Century ghost city.
Pripyat was, however, recently deemed safe to visit for short periods and has now become one of Ukraine's most talked about tourist attractions.
An estimated 60,000 people visited the exclusion zone last year, keen to witness the dramatic decay.
Image caption Signs of tourism are popping up around the exclusion zone Its bleak notoriety has made it the subject of some dark, social media-based showing-off.
Search #chernobyl on Instagram and you will find - among the interesting landscapes and tourist snaps - images of anonymous, costumed characters, sometimes wearing gas masks or holding up creepy-looking dolls for the camera.
'Tell people Chernobyl is not such a horrible place' The town of Chernobyl itself - somewhat confusingly much further from the power plant than Pripyat - is in a less contaminated area.
It has become a relatively populous hub.
Power plant decommissioning staff, scientists and tourists stay here.
Gennady, Jim, me and the rest of the research team are staying in one of its small hotels - a Soviet-style building with an incongruously pretty, well-tended garden around it.
This greenery is looked after by Irina, who manages the hotel.
She stays here for three months at a time before a colleague takes over.
People are only permitted to live in the town for limited periods.
Over a cup of tea on our second evening at the hotel, Gennady translates as Irina tells us about her memories of the accident.
She lived in Pripyat at the time with her grandmother.
Image caption Pripyat's abandoned fairground has become an icon On 27 April - a day after the explosion - the town was evacuated.
People were ordered to leave immediately.
They lined up for buses that would take them away from the town and the plant.
Irina was on her way back to her grandmother's apartment at the time.
"A friend of my grandmother's was driving a cattle wagon - taking his livestock out," she recalled.
"My grandmother asked if he would take me with him, so I climbed on to the cattle wagon.
"I didn't know what was happening."
Image caption Inside our Chernobyl hotel But Irina, not unlike Maria, felt a need to return to the zone.
She has never been back to Pripyat, though; it would upset her too much to see it now.
But she takes pride in tending the flowers around her Chernobyl hotel.
"I like to make it as pretty as possible for the visitors," she tells me.
"So maybe you can tell people back home that Chernobyl is not such a horrible place."
'We have forgotten that we are Chernobyl people' Gennady's 33 years working in the exclusion zone might have been leading up to one meeting at the end of this week.
It is being held in a school in Narodichi, the town in the outer zone.
Here, scientists, community members, medical experts and officials from the state agency that manages the exclusion zone are gathering to discuss a change that could transform this district's future.
For the first time since the boundary was drawn, the zone is set to change.
Three decades of research have concluded that much of it is safe - for food to be grown and for the land to be developed.
Narodichi is one of its least contaminated places.
Jim and Gennady are presenting their conclusions at the meeting.
Before it is under way, I have arranged to visit the town's kindergarten, where the children are playing outside in the sunshine.
A rainbow-painted picket fence at the edge of their playground contrasts almost ludicrously with grey, half-built tower blocks next door.
There were 360 children here before the accident.
Tatiana Kravchenko, a woman with a perpetual kind smile and who is wearing a thick, bright pink coat, is the kindergarten manager.
She remembers the evacuation.
"The children were evacuated together with teachers to 'clean zones'," she recalls.
"In three months we were sent back, and we had only 25 children.
Eventually, people have come back, new children have been born and gradually the kindergarten started filling up again.
Now we have 130 children here."
Most of the time, Tatiana says, she does not think of her community as being within the exclusion zone.
"We forget that we are Chernobyl people; we have other issues to deal with," she tells me.
"It's no secret that half of the parents [of these kids] are unemployed, because there is nowhere to work.
I wish that we could build something here - that our community could start to bloom."
'Maybe it's time to redraw the map' Back in the meeting, Gennady peers over red-rimmed glasses, attentively listening to what is being said.
Discussions are taking longer than expected.
Much of the community input seems to reflect Tatiana's thoughts - that it is time for restrictions to be lifted here.
But there is a lot at stake.
Image caption People still fear the legacy of what happened here in 1986 People affected by the accident receive financial compensation from the government.
Here, in a town of high unemployment, in a country where the average wage is less than 400USD per month, that income is important.
And many still fear Chernobyl radiation - and the effect that it might still have on their health, and the health of their children.
After many years of research, understanding and explaining the long-term health legacy of the accident has been infuriatingly complicated.
It is conclusive that around 5,000 cases of thyroid cancer - most of which were treated and cured - were caused by the contamination.
Authorities failed to prevent contaminated milk from being sold in the region; many who were children at the time drank it receiving large doses of radioactive iodine.
That was one of the contaminants blasted out of the reactor.
Many suspect that the radiation has or will cause other cancers, but the evidence is patchy.
Prof Richard Wakeford, from the University of Manchester's Centre for Occupational and Environmental Health, points out that health studies look for a "signal" of a specific health effect linked to Chernobyl.
They aim to pick out that signal above the "background noise" from other causes.
That has been incredibly difficult, primarily because of the huge background noise that was the almost simultaneous upheaval of the Soviet Union's collapse.
"It's assumed that there will be some cancers linked to the accident in addition to the thyroid cancers, but detecting them amid that socioeconomic chaos - that had its own impacts on people's health - has proven almost impossible," says Prof Wakeford.
Cancer also affects between a third and a half of people in Europe, so any Chernobyl signal is likely to be small.
Amid reports of other health problems - including birth defects - it still is not clear if any can be attributed to radiation.
Image caption Gennady (right) and his colleagues have grown crops in the exclusion zone as part of their research Prof Geraldine Thomas from Imperial College London explains: "Another confounding factor in this part of the world relates, confusingly, to iodine deficiency."
In its non-radioactive form, iodine is found in milk, green leafy vegetables and seaweed.
A lack of it in the diet is a known cause of problems in the early development of the brain and spinal cord.
"So one possible cause of birth defects is actually a lack of iodine in the environment," the prof says.
All of this means that estimates of cancer cases remain highly contentious.
In its seminal 2006 report on the the long-term consequences of the accident, the World Health Organization did conclude that many people's mental health has been damaged - by fear of radiation and severe disruption to their lives.
As a scientist who has spent years scrutinising the truth about the contamination in the zone, Gennady admits that he did not expect the people of Narodichi to be afraid of radiation.
"It's a very big factor affecting their lives, even more than 30 years after the accident.
This is really something that surprised me," he says.
That fear can be physically as well as mentally damaging.
A sense of fatalism and hopelessness associated with assumptions of being doomed by radiation is thought to contribute to higher rates of of smoking and alcoholism in this region - both of which are definitively bad for people's health.
"It was a terrible thing that happened here," says Jim.
"But that tends to dominate people's lives.
"Somehow - and it's very, very difficult - we've got to move towards a situation where people can go back to living their lives without this fear, this radiation blight."
We're not going anywhere Gennady emerges from the meeting looking a little jaded, but he says he is cautiously optimistic.
The map was not officially redrawn today, but, crucially, most people in the room agreed there was a need for change.
Image caption The Narodichi meeting could be a first step in transforming the district "The community wants to bring more life here," Gennady says.
"And we, as scientists, know that a lot of places here can be easily excluded from this ban, so I think this was a very positive moment."
At the kindergarten, Tatiana has ushered the younger children inside for an afternoon nap.
There are rows of adorably tiny beds inside a new wing of the kindergarten that was built with money from a Japanese charity.
The close relationship between Japan and Ukraine has been forged by the former being in the early stages of understanding the impact of its own nuclear disaster - at the Fukushima power plant.
Looking from the pristine new kindergarten building to the neighbouring derelict block, she says she would support the town's removal from the zone.
"These houses could be reconstructed and filled with people.
We dream about that.
"We live here.
We are not going to leave for anywhere else.
Our children live here."
By BBC Science Correspondent Victoria Gill.
Photographs by Jemma Cox.
Graphics by Lilly Huynh and Sana Jasemi.
Video Elon Musk's SpaceX Falcon Heavy launched from NASAs Kennedy Space Center in Florida carrying a satellite into orbit for Saudi Arabian company Arabsat.
As well as having its first commercial payload, it was also the first time the three lower boosters of the rocket returned to Earth successfully.
The rocket is part of a growing number of launch services at SpaceX, which includes the Crew Dragon that docked onto the International Space Station in March.
What really happens to 'recycling' plastic?
Many Japanese people who recycle their household plastic would be shocked to know where it ends up.
Video Kenyan teen Some adopted Diji the cheetah when she was 17 and now plans on pursuing a career in conservation.
Now 18, she cares for Diji at the Animal Orphanage, at Kenya Wildlife Centre in Nairobi, after his mother was killed by poachers when he was two-years-old.
She sees this as a way of giving back to the environment, and thinks everyone should be a conservationist.
A BBC Africa One Minute Story produced by BBC What's New?
Video Astronomers have taken the first ever picture of a black hole at the heart of a distant galaxy called M87 in the Virgo galaxy cluster.
It measures 40 billion km across, 3.3 million times the size of the Earth.
The Event Horizon Telescope used a network of eight telescopes across the world to get the image.
Read more: First ever black hole image released
Video Protest group Extinction Rebellion's fight against climate change is making headlines - most recently when they stripped semi-naked in the House of Commons.
The Victoria Derbyshire programme has gone behind the scenes with the organisation urging people to break the law to save the world.
Watch the Victoria Derbyshire programme on BBC Two and BBC News Channel, 10:00 to 11:00 GMT - and see more of our stories here.
