Apples iOS will now confirm you meant to subscribe to that app Apple has added another step to prevent users from accidentally signing up for an iOS apps subscription or, from being tricked into it by a scammy app not playing by the rules.
The company recently rolled out a subscription confirmation dialog box that pops up as one final step to ensure you meant to opt in to the subscription being offered.
The change to iOS was first spotted by app developer David Barnard on Twitter and reported by Apple news site 9to5Mac.
Whoa!
Apple added an additional confirmation step for subscriptions.
This new alert comes after you confirm with Touch ID/Face ID.
I hope they address this in a more elegant way in iOS 13, but Im thrilled Apple took a definitive step to curb scam subscriptions.
@pschiller pic.twitter.com/oktaEVdx0o David Barnard (@drbarnard) April 11, 2019 The new confirmation box is a welcome addition, considering how many users were accidentally subscribing particularly those with Touch ID-based phones who were trying to exit to the Home screen.
Instead, they were giving the app permission to sign them up by placing their finger on the Home button, which triggered the Touch ID authentication process.
The update also arrives following several changes Apple has made to subscriptions in recent months to address problems around scammy subscriptions.
A good number of developers especially those in the Utility category were using sneaky tricks to tap into the subscription craze to bank thousands and even millions of dollars per year.
Some apps would intentionally confuse users with their design, or make promises of free trials that converted in only a few days, or used other misleading tactics to get users to subscribe.
This left many consumers feeling they had been duped into paying, and a host of angry App Store reviews followed.
The scams could have had a broader impact on the subscription economy, if Apple had allowed them to go unchecked, as consumers would have become wary of ever signing up for anything as a result.
That would have been a problem, given how subscriptions have become a big business for the App Store.
According to one forecast, they are poised to grow to $75.7 billion by 2022, in fact.
However, Apple has since begun to crack down on bad actors, while also making subscriptions easier to manage by iOS users.
In January, it rolled out new developer guidelines to more clearly spell out what is and is not allowed; and in February it updated iOS to reduce the number of steps it took to get to your subscriptions, so you could more quickly and easily cancel them.
Now, the new dialog box will ensure that users understand theyre opting in to a paid subscription, with a message that reads: Confirm Subscription.
The subscription will continue unless canceled in Settings at least one day before a subscription period ends.
Apple didnt formally announce the change, but it appears to have rolled out sometime in the last week, reports say.
Pan-African e-commerce company Jumia listed on the New York Stock Exchange today, with shares beginning trading at $14.50 under ticker symbol JMIA.
This comes four weeks after CEO Sacha Poignonnec confirmed the IPO to TechCrunch and Jumia filed SEC documents.
With the public offering, Jumia becomes the first startup from Africa to list on a major global exchange.
In an updated SEC filing, Jumia indicated it is offering 13,500,000 ADR shares, for an opening price spread of $13 to $16 per share, representing 17.6 percent of all company shares.
The IPO could raise up to $216 million for the internet venture.
Since the original announcement (and reflected in the latest SEC docs), Mastercard Europe pre-purchased $50 million in Jumia ordinary shares.
The IPO creates another milestone for Jumia.
The company became the first African startup unicorn in 2016, achieving a $1 billion valuation after a funding round that included Goldman Sachs, AXA and MTN.
Theres a lot to breakdown on Jumias going public.
The company is often dubbed the Amazon of Africa, and like Amazon, Jumia comes with its own mixed buzz.
Jumias SEC F-1 prospectus offers us more insight into the venture, and perhaps any startup from Africa, thus far.
About Jumia Founded in Lagos in 2012 with Rocket Internet backing, Jumia now operates multiple online verticals in 14 African countries.
Goods and services lines include Jumia Food (an online takeout service), Jumia Flights (for travel bookings) and Jumia Deals (for classifieds).
Jumia processed more than 13 million packages in 2018, according to company data.
Jumias original co-founders included Nigerian tech entrepreneurs Tunde Kehinde and Raphael, but both departed in 2015 to form other startups in fintech and logistics.
Starting in Nigeria, the company created many of the components for its digital sales operations.
This includes its JumiaPay payment platform and a delivery service of trucks and motorbikes that have become ubiquitous with the Lagos landscape.
Jumia has extended this infrastructure as an e-commerce fulfillment product called Jumia Services.
Jumia has also opened itself up to Africas traders by allowing local merchants to harness Jumia to sell online.
The company has over 80,000 active sellers on the platform using the companys payment, delivery, and data-analytics services, Jumia Nigeria CEO Juliet Anammah told TechCrunch a previously.
The most popular goods on Jumias shopping site include smartphones, washing machines, fashion items, womens hair care products, and 32-inch TVs, according to Anammah.
Jumia an African startup?
Like Amazon, Jumia brings its own mix of supporters and critics.
On the critical side, there are questions of whether its actually an African startup.
The parent for Jumia Group is incorporated in Germany and current CEOs Jeremy Hodara and Sacha Poignonnec are French.
On the flipside, original Jumia co-founders (Kehinde and Afeodor) are African.
The company is headquartered (and also incorporated) in Africa (Lagos), operates exclusively in Africa, pays taxes on the continent, employs 5,128 people in Africa (page 125 of K-1), and the CEO of its largest country operation (Nigeria) Juliet Anammah is Nigerian.
The Africa authenticity debate often shifts into questions of a Jumia diversity deficit, which is of course important from Silicon Valley to Nairobi.
The companys senior management and board is a mix of Africans and expats.
Golden State Warriors basketball player and tech investor Andre Iguodala joined Jumias board this spring with a priority on diversity and making sure the African culture is in the company, he told TechCrunch.
Can Jumia turn a profit?
The Jumia authenticity and diversity debates will no doubt roll on.
But the biggest questionthe driver behind the VC, the IPO, the founders, and the people buying Jumias sharesis whether the startup can generate profits and ROI.
Obviously some of the worlds top venture investors, such as Jumia backers Goldman, AXA, and Mastercard, think so.
But for Jumia skeptics, there are the big losses.
The company has generated years and years of losses, including negative EBITDA of 172 million in 2018 compared to revenues of 139 that same year.
To be fair to Jumia, most startups (e-commerce startups in particular) rack up losses for years before getting into the black.
And operating in a greenfield sector in Africawhere it had to create much of the surrounding infrastructure to do B2C online saleshas presented higher costs for Jumia than e-commerce startups elsewhere.
On the prospects for Jumias profitability, two things to watch will be Jumias fulfillment expenses and a shift to more revenue from its non-goods-delivery services, which offer lower unit costs and higher-margins.
Per Jumias SEC F-1 index (see above) freight and shipping make up over half of its fulfillment expenses.
So Jumia has not turned a profit but its revenues have increased steadily, up 11 percent to 93.8M (roughly $106.2 million) in 2017 and up again to 130M (or $147 million) in 2018.
If the company boosts customer acquisition and lowers fulfillment costswhich could come from more internet services revenue and platform investment with IPO capitalit could close the gap between revenues and losses.
This reflects the equation for most e-commerce startups.
With the IPO Jumia will have to publish its first full public financials in 2019, which will provide a better picture of profitability prospects.
Jumias IPO and African e-commerce?
Theres is, of course, a bigger play in Jumias IPO.
One connected to global e-commerce and the future of online retail in Africa.
Jumia going public comes as Africas e-commerce landscape has seen its share of ups and downs, notably several failures in DealDey shutting down and the distressed acquisition of Nigerian e-commerce hopeful Konga.com.
As for the big global names, Alibaba has talked about Africa expansion, but for the moment has not entered in full.
Amazon offers limited e-commerce sales on the continent, but more notably, has started offering AWS services in Africa.
And this week, DHL came on the scene launching its Africa eShop platform with 200 global retailers on board, in partnership with MallforAfricas Link Commerce fulfillment service.
Competition to capture Africas digitizing consumer marketsexpected to spend $2 billion online by 2025, according to McKinseycould get fierce, with more global entries, acquisitions, and competition on fulfillment services all part of the mix.
And finally, the outcome of Jumias IPO carries weight even for its competitors.
Many things, like business decisions and VC investments across Africas e-commerce sector are on on hold, an African e-commerce exec told TechCrunch on background.
Everyones waiting to see what happens with Jumias IPO and how they perform, the exec said.
So the share-price connected to NYSE ticker sign JMIA could reflect not just investor confidence in Jumia, but investor confidence in African e-commerce overall.
Facebook upset millions upon millions of users five years ago when it removed chat from its core mobile app and forced them to download Messenger to communicate privately with friends.
Now it looks like it might be able to restore the option inside the Facebook app.
Thats according to a discovery from researcher Jane Manchun Wong who discovered an unreleased feature that brings limited chat features back into the core social networking app.
Wongs finding suggests that, at this point, calling, photo sharing and reactions wont be supported inside the Facebook app chat feature, but it remains to be seen if that is simply because it is currently in development.
Facebook is bringing the Chats back to the app for preparing integrated messaging Tip @Techmeme pic.twitter.com/LABK7qrk0e Jane Manchun Wong (@wongmjane) April 12, 2019 It is unclear whether the feature will ship to users at all since this is a test.
Messenger, which has over 1.3 billion monthly users, will likely stick but this change would give users other options for chatting to friends.
Weve contacted Facebook for comment, although were yet to hear back from the company.
Well update this story with any comment that the company does share.
As youd expect, the discovery has been greeted with cheers from many users who were disgruntled when Facebook yanked chat from the app all those years ago.
I cant help but wonder, however, if there are more people today who are content with using Messenger to chat without the entire Facebook service bolted on.
Given all of Facebooks missteps over the past year or two, consumer opinion of the social network has never been lower, which raises the appeal of using it to connect with friends but without engaging its advertising or newsfeed.
Wongs finding comes barely a month after Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg sketched out a plan to pivot the companys main focus to groups and private conversation rather than its previously public forum approach.
That means messaging is about to become its crucial social graph, so why not bring it back to the core Facebook app?
Well have to wait and see, but the evidence certainly shows Facebook is weighing the merits of such a move.
A games publisher in China is following the path of its larger peer Tencent to back a wide spectrum of startups for financial gains.
Beijing Kunlun Wanwei, or Kunlun, announced in a filing this week that it plans to inject $50 million into autonomous driving startup Pony.ai in exchange for a 3 percent stake.
Pony.ai confirmed the investment with TechCrunch in an email response, adding that the money contributes to its pre-B round of financing.
The startup last pocketed $102 million that valued it at nearly $1 billion.
Its raised $214 million in total fundings excluding its angel round, according to data from CrunchBase.
Shanghai-listed Kunlun has its bets on one of Chinas most aggressive smart driving companies.
Pony.ai, co-founded by James Peng, formerly a leader in Baidus self-driving division, was only second to Baidu in total autonomous miles driven in Beijing last year (although by a large margin).
While neither Kunlun nor Pony.ai provided an inkling of possible strategic collaboration between them, next-gen vehicles have become a much sought-after space for hosting entertainment content, and without a doubt that includes video games.
Few outside Chinas internet industry know of Kunlun, which has over the years been squeezed by industry leaders Tencent and NetEase .
The 11-year-old company has, however, gradually earned its reputation as a savvy investor.
Led by Zhou Yahui, a shrewd investor himself, Kunlun has backed companies that broadened distribution channels for its gaming titles.
Other fundings appear more tangential.
Heres a taste of Kunluns lucrative portfolio: Musical.ly: Kunlun laid out $20 million for Musical.ly and cashed out $41.08 million when Bytedance acquired Musical.ly in 2017, according to a filing.
Musical.ly is now part of the popular short video app TikTok.
Inke: Back in 2016, Kunlun invested 68 million yuan ($10 million) in live streaming company Inke.
By 2017 it had sold all its stakes in the startup and was poised to cash out a total of 824 million yuan ($123 million) after the transaction completed, according to a filing.
Inke is the currently third-largest live streaming app by monthly active devices in China, says data from iResearch.
Opera: Kunlun was part of a consortium that acquired the web browser in 2016 when it shelled out $600 million in investment.
Through the consortium, Kunlun now owns a 48 percent stake in Opera, which floated on Nasdaq in 2018.
Grindr: Kunlun paid $93 million for a 60 percent stake in Grindr, the popular dating app for gay, bisexual, transgender and queer users, back in 2016 and completed the buyout with $152 million in fundings in 2018.
Kunlun is reportedly looking to sell Grindr after the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States decided its ownership of the dating app may threaten national security.
Qudian: Kunlun owned a 19.2 percent stake in Qudian when the micro-lender became one of the first Chinese fintech companies to list on Nasdaq.
Kunlun has since been selling its stakes through a gradual exit and Zhou recently told analysts that his firm was expected to make around 2 billion yuan ($300 million) in profit from the Qudian investment.
The article has been updated to clarify Crunchbases data did not include Pony.ais angel round funding.
PayU, the Naspers-owned payments company that competes with the likes of PayPal but focuses mainly on emerging markets, has made an acquisition to expand its business in India.
It has acquired Wibmo, a startup based out of the U.S. (Cupertino, to be exact) that mostly operates in India.
PayU is paying $70 million for the startup, bringing the total its invested in building its business to $500 million in the last two years.
Wibmo offers a range of payment processing services that cover security, risk and fraud, authentication, SME disbursements, mobile payments, QR codes and prepaid cards.
It works with banks, merchants and offers consumer-facing services, too.
The appeal to PayU appears to be an opportunity to own touchpoints across the payment process, a bridge to develop its own ecosystem, although Wibmo will keep its branding and run as a wholly-owned subsidiary.
The deal had previously been reported by Economic Times last month, and it speaks to ongoing consolidation.
This is a strategic acquisition for PayU that combines our merchant network and Wibmos leadership in digital security, Aakash Moondhra, Chief Financial Officer at PayU Global, told TechCrunch in an interview.
PayU is very bullish on India as a market.
A Citi report issued late last year valued PayUs India unit at $2.5 billion, and thats no accident given the level of investment that the company has made.
PayU acquired Citrus for $130 million in 2016, and it has also made investments in Indian fintech startups that include PaySense and Zest Money.
Elsewhere in the world, its deal-making has included investments in Creditas in Brazil, Germanys Kreditech, U.S-based Remitly which operates remittance worldwide and Zooz in Israel.
Another key area for the business in India has been a move away from a wallet-based approach to financial services.
PayU shuttered one of its wallet apps in India at the beginning of last year, and instead went after services that include credit and deferred payment options, via its LazyPay service.
The business also has its core payment gateway service, which will be boosted by the addition of Wibmo.
Naspers itself is doubling down on India, where it has backed unicorns Swiggy, food delivery service that recently raised a $1 billion round, and education service Byjus, which pulled in $540 million, with major deals announced in recent months.
The company, which is still best known for its early investment in Tencent, has reportedly set aside $1 billion for fintech-related M&A in India, according to a Bloomberg report published last month.
LumApps, the social intranet for the enterprise, has closed $24 million in Series B funding.
The round is led by previous backer IdInvest, and will be used to scale LumApps global sales and marketing and accelerate product development.
Founded in Paris in 2012 and now also with offices in London, Tokyo, San Francisco and New York LumApps has developed a social web-styled intranet for enterprises to let company employees better connect and collaborate.
The solution integrates with both G Suite, Microsoft Office 365 and Microsoft Sharepoint, and is accessible via mobile.
Overall, it is designed to serve as a central hub for personalized content, social communications, work tools and enterprise applications.
We launched LumApps Social Intranet solution in 2015, after our historical customer Veolia asked us to create a platform based on their needs, LumApps founder and CEO Sbastien Ricard tells me.
We quickly realized there was a massive demand for modern intranets from all companies, to transform internal communications and the employee experience.
Thats because, he says, communication within an enterprise is challenging, spread across disparate tools such as email, live chat, and social networks solutions that are typically disconnected and siloed.
This is especially true in large enterprises, where finding information and reaching the right people can be very difficult.
Our dream was to enable access to useful information in one click, from one place and for everyone.
Just that simple.
We wanted to build a solution that bridged [an] intranet and social network, with the latest new technologies.
A place that users will love.
At its core, Ricard says LumApps goes further than just solving common business challenges, including fostering a collaborative workplace where employees are more engaged and more productive.
Every large company is building their digital workplace, and its critical that they have a central intranet that houses all employee communications, news, memos, applications, etc.
from the corporate team but also from peers.
That mission appears to be working, evidenced by todays Series B funding and a customer base that spans enterprises small and large.
Companies using LumApps include Veolia, Valeo, Air Liquide, Colgate-Palmolive, The Economist, Schibsted, EA, and Logitech.
The intranet software has on-boarded more than 4 million users globally.
Adds Ricard: As a French entrepreneur, it has always been a dream to build such a global success, says Ricard.
We encountered highs and lows, especially in 2016 when we started in the U.S. and lived our first year of setbacks.
Why?
All we had was our product and we didnt yet understand the culture and market specifics.
It took time to hire American talent to structure everything and build a solid base Now we have a team of 150-plus people worldwide with a special focus on the U.S.
Uber has already made billions from its exits in China, Russia and Southeast Asia Branded as failures, Uber's exit deals with rivals are worth $12.5 billion on paper Ubers exits from China, Russia and Southeast Asia were billed as failures from the company, but the ride-sharing giant has already made billions on paper from those moves, according to its IPO filing.
Uber released its much-anticipated S1 on Thursday U.S. time and reporters and analysts are frantically digging into a treasure trove of previously-unreleased details.
A number of sections on Ubers global divestitures begin to paint a clear picture of the strategy that Uber employed when leaving China, Russia and Southeast Asia in recent years.
In each case, Uber decided to leave the market but, upon doing so, take a stake in its rival business in exchange for the assets it had remaining.
That not only keeps them involved, but it removes the often substantial cost of competing with a single-market player and gives Uber options to re-enter the market or profit from its partners success there.
Already that strategy is bearing fruit.
Today, those holdings are collectively worth a cool $12.5 billion on paper, with a least $3 billion in gains so far.
China: $7.95 billion China was Ubers first tactical exit and it saw the company sell to local giant Didi Chuxing in August 2016.
The Uber filing shows the U.S. firm took an 18.8 percent take in Didi.
That, Uber estimates, has since been reduced to around 15.4 percent due to subsequent fundraising from Didi, which last publicly announced a $5.5 billion raise one year ago previously, it raised $4 billion at the end of 2017.
The really interesting part of the filing is Ubers estimate for the value of its Didi stake: that was $5.97 billion as of the end of 2017, and $7.95 billion at the end of last year.
Thats a $2 billion paper increase in just one year, although the Uber filing doesnt provide a value for the initial merger deal.
Didi is also in the money having invested $1 billion into Uber in exchange for shares.
One notable piece is that an investigation into whether the deal constitutes a monopoly is still ongoing, some two and a half years after the transaction was first announced.
It is not clear how or when that proceeding will be resolved, Uber notes in its document.
Finally, the original deal included a clause forbidding Didi from making certain investments outside of Asia for a six-year period.
The company breached that it acquired Uber rival 99 in Brazil and expanded its business into Mexico, among other moves which saw Uber take back some shares, although its net gain was only $152 million.
Didi has struggled over the last 18 months so safety concerns bubbled to the fore following the murder of two female passengers last year.
Operationally, too, there have been challenges.
Didi reportedly lost $1.6 billion last year thats more than Uber and it reshuffled the organization by laying off 15 percent of its staff recently.
Despite buying out Uber, it is up against increased competition after a consortium of automakers inked a $1.45 billion ride-hailing joint-venture while new government rules have made the business of ride-hailing, and in particular recruiting drivers, more challenging in China.
Still, as Chinas dominant firm and with an increasingly global presence, youd imagine that Ubers stake is likely to become more lucrative in the future.
Southeast Asia: $3.22 billion Ubers exit from Southeast Asia in March 2018 never seemed a copy of its China play, where it was burning a reported $1 billion a year.
Instead, I argued that the deal was actually a win for the U.S. firm because it took a decent slice of Grab as part of the agreement and Ubers filings show that is already proving to be the case.
Uber noted that the exit deal saw it take an initial 30 percent stake for $2.28 billion, which has since diluted to around 23 percent following Grab fundraising, which remains ongoing with a goal of $6.5 billion for its Series H. (That may be why the Uber stake was initially announced as 23 percent rather than 30 percent.)
Grabs most recent valuation was $14 billion, according to sources, which means Ubers stake is already worth $3.22 billion, a nearly $1 billion jump on paper in just a year.
Uber said last year that it had spent $700 million in Southeast Asia, so thats a significant return at this point.
With the company in a dogfight with Go-Jek, its Indonesia rival thats backed by the likes of Google and Tencent, it seems unlikely that Grab and key shareholder SoftBank will do anything other than keep on raising.
Thatll likely dilute Uber which, as a shareholder rather than an investor, isnt likely to invest again but itll increase Grabs valuation and thus the value of Ubers stake.
That leads us to the next detail of Ubers Grab investment: its stake is classified as available-for-sale debt security.
Thats to say that Uber could potentially dispose of its stake in the future.
Indeed, the Uber filing notes a clause in the deal that would allow the U.S. firm to sell all or a portion of its investment back to Grab for cash if the company hasnt gone public by March 25 2023, five years after the deal.
Thats the first real line in the sand that weve seen for a Grab IPO and, with a buyback already expensive as Ubers stake is worth more than $3 billion, the clock is ticking.
Russia: $1.4 billion Finally, Ubers third tactical retreat is Russia, where it formed a joint venture with local rival Yandex.taxi in July 2017.
The combined business covers ride-hailing and food delivery in over 127 cities in Russia.
That gives it a different kind of relationship to its deals with Didi and Grab, where it one of many minority shareholders, and Ubers S1 gives fewer details of the Russia JV.
What we do know is that Uber estimates its share of the business is 38 percent, a slice that it says is worth $1.4 billion.
Thats a valuation of around $3.68 billion which is on par with the $3.7 billion that the companies announced at the time of the deal.
Like the other deals, the business is the dominant one in a huge market Russia has a population of more than 140 million people so it stands to reason that the business will grow and thus Ubers value within it will increase.
Yandex, the parent of Yandex.taxi, also stands to gain and not just from the joint venture.
Uber allocated the company two million shares (then worth $54 million) which, at a proposed $55 per share, would more than double to $110 million at IPO and thats not counting its potential value in the future.
A change with Careem acquisition Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said that Southeast Asia would be the companys last global retreat, and he seems to have been good to his word so far.
Indeed, Uber announced its largest acquisition last month with a planned $3 billion purchase of Middle East-based rival Careem, which is present in 15 markets.
The Uber filing explains that the deal, which has not been completed, is $3.1 billion with around $1.4 billion in cash.
We have structured the acquisition and proposed integration of Careem with the goal of preserving the strengths of both companies, including opportunities to create operating efficiencies across both platforms.
We expect to share consumer demand and driver supply across both platforms, thereby increasing network density and reducing wait times for consumers and drivers in the region, while simultaneously achieving synergies from combining back-end support functions and shared technology infrastructure, Uber wrote in a statement.
Thats certainly a new approach for Uber worldwide and, post IPO, itll be interesting to watch it actively play a role in consolidating other businesses into its own rather than going the other way.
Still, those three global retreats are likely to pay off handsomely despite being billed as the result of failure.
While the world marvels at the first black hole image ever taken, a Chinese photo-sharing community is setting off a huge public outcry over its use of the landmark photo and a wider debate over copyrights practices in China.
As soon as the European Southern Observatory released the black hole photo on April 10, Visual China Group (VCG), Chinas leading stock image provider thats compared to Getty Images and owns Flikrs one-time rival 500px, made the image available for sale in its library without attribution to the Event Horizon Telescope Collaboration (EHT), an array of radio telescopes that captured the image of the black hole.
This is an editorial image.
Please call 400-818-2525 or consult our customer service representative for commercial use, said a note for the black hole image on VCGs website.
Internet users took to social media slamming VCG for monetizing a photo intended for free distribution among the human race.
Most of images on ESO are, according to the organization, under the Creative Commons license.
Unless specifically noted, the images, videos, and music distributed on the public ESO website, along with the texts of press releases, announcements, pictures of the week, blog posts and captions, are licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, and may on a non-exclusive basis be reproduced without fee provided the credit is clear and visible.
VCG swiftly revised the note to say the black hole photo should not be used for commercial purposes, but Pandoras box was already open.
The incident sparked a plethora of comments on Weibo, Chinas equivalent of Twitter, condemning VCGs opportunist business practice.
The site is said to often play the role of the victim to obtain financial compensation, and it does so by seeking damages from users who inadvertently use a public domain photo that VCG has preemptively copyrighted.
Shares of VCG plummeted 10 percent Friday morning in Shanghai, giving it a market cap of 17.66 billion yuan ($2.63 billion).
Assets of VCGs massive content library range from logos of large tech companies like Baidu, all the way to the Chinese national flag.
Does your company also own copyrights to the national flag and national emblem?
remarked the Chinese Communist Youth League on its official Weibo account in a snarky response to VCGs unscrupulous licensing practice.
The price tag of the national emblem image is, lo and behold, no less than 150 yuan ($22) for use in a newspaper article and at least 1,500 yuan ($220) on a magazine cover.
Copyrights protection should definitely be promoted.
The question is, why is VCG allowed to price photos of the black hole and the likes out of the market?
Why is it able to exploit loopholes?
Du Yu, a Beijing-based freelance technology journalist, said to TechCrunch.
TechCrunch has reached out to ESO for comments and will update the story once we hear back.
Government intervention soon followed on the heels of online criticisms.
On April 11, the cyberspace watchdog of Tianjin, where VCGs parent company is based, ordered the photo site to end its illegal, rule-breaking practices.
VCG apologized on April 12 in a company statement, admitting the lack of oversight over its contracted contributors who allegedly uploaded the images in question.
We have taken down all non-compliant photos and closed down the site voluntarily for a revamp in accordance with related laws, said VCG.
Disneys direct-to-consumer streaming strategy took center stage today at the companys investor day.
That strategy includes Hulu (where the recently-closed Fox acquisition has given Disney a contyrolling stake), ESPN+ and the Indian streaming service Hotstar, but executives spent most of their time hyping the upcoming launch of Disney+.
The company said the service will launch in the United States on November 12, and will have a monthly streaming price of $6.99 per month.
Executives confirmed that unlike Hulu and ESPN+, Disney+ will be entirely ad-free, making all its money from subscriptions.
Kevin Mayer, Disneys direct-to-consumer chairman, also said the company is likely to offer a bundle of Hulu, ESPN+ and Disney+ at a discounted price.
Mayer and other Disney executives also offered the first look at what they said is a working prototype of the Disney+ service.
To a large extent, it looked like any other streaming app, but they made it clear that all the content will be available to download for offline viewing.
The service will be designed around Disneys portfolio of entertainment brands there will be separate sections for Disney animation, Pixar, Star Wars, Marvel and National Geographic.
In each case, the speakers emphasized the existing library of films.
Not all of those films will be available at launch, but many will be, with more added over the first couple years of operation (presumably as theyre freed up from deals with third parties like Netflix).
For example, Disney said that at launch, the service will include the entirety of the animation studios 13-film Signature collection, plus the first two Star Wars trilogies and The Force Awakens, plus Captain Marvel and other Marvel films.
In addition, Disney is creating a number of original shows for the service (much of it highlighted in clips and sizzle reals that were not included on the webcast).
Those include a whole lineup of Marvel shows that Marvel President Kevin Feige said would be closely tied to the studios films, as well as the Star Wars series The Mandalorian and a show about the Rogue One characters Cassian Andor and K-2SO.
As for when international viewers will actually get to watch all this content, Disney Streaming President Michael Paull said the plan is to roll out across North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Latin America throughout 2021.
Oh, and Disney+ will be the exclusive streaming home of The Simpsons.
Updated with launch date, pricing and The Simpsons exclusivity.
Hello and welcome back to Equity, TechCrunchs venture capital-focused podcast, where we unpack the numbers behind the headlines.
Its time for another Equity Shot, a quick-take episode centered around a breaking news event.
This time, as you already guessed, Kate Clark and I sat down to dig into the Uber S-1.
Its a huge, complex document, but we did our best to summarize whats inside.
First, we talked through yearly results, looking back a half-decade into Ubers revenue growth.
In the filing, Uber reported 2018 revenues of $11.27 billion, net income of $997 million and adjusted EBITDA losses of $1.85 million.
We highlighted those numbers, talked about operating losses and the companys gyrating net results that included the positive impacts of various divestitures.
Yes, this S-1 required a bit more unpacking than most.
We apologize for the frantic scrolling, we were pouring through the document live and we were a bit excited.
This is an IPO thats been talked about for years and will be easily one of the largest floats of all time.
Anyway, an S-1 brings insights to more than just a companys financials, so we spent time highlighting key stakeholders, or, in other words, the people are are going to get really really really rich off Ubers IPO.
That includes Uber co-founder and chief executive officer Travis Kalanick, famous venture capital firms like the SoftBank Vision Fund and Benchmark, and more.
The IPO, remember, is expected to sell $10 billion in stock (primary and secondary) and value the company at $100 billion or more.
If 30 minutes digging through the S-1 wasnt enough for you, dont fret, well be following the Uber IPO for weeks probably months to come.
At todays Disney Investor Day, Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige outlined the superheroic side of the upcoming streaming service Disney+.
That includes a number of original shows: Wanda Vision, which will star Elizabeth Olsen as Scarlet Witch and Paul Bettany as The Vision; Falcon and the Winter Soldier starring Anthony Mackie and Sebastian Stan as the titular characters; a Loki series starring Tom Hiddleston and an animated What if?
series telling out-of-continuity stories, starting with episode about Peggy Carter becoming a super soldier.
While the development of these shows had been reported on already, Feiges presentation provided official word on the initial lineup.
He also emphasized that unlike other Marvel TV series (say, on Netflix), these will be major storylines set in the MCU, with ramifications for other Disney+ series and big-screen Marvel adventures.
The service will also include several series taking viewers behind-the-scenes of the Marvel universe, and parts of the Marvel movie library many of those films are currently tied up in deals with third parties like Netflix, but at launch, the service will include both the first Marvel Studios film, Iron Man, and the most recent, Captain Marvel.
At least, thats the most recent Marvel film for the next few weeks, until the release of Avengers: Endgame.
Which Feige alluded to: Post-Endgame, the MCU will be extremely different, and extremely focused on Disney+.
Uber spent $457 million last year on research and development of autonomous vehicles, flying cars (known as eVTOLs) and other technology programs and will continue to invest heavily in the futuristic tech even though it expects to rely on human drivers for years to come, according to the companys IPO prospectus filed Thursday.
R&D costs at Uber ATG, the companys autonomous vehicle unit, its eVTOL unit Uber Elevate and other related technology represented one-third of its total R&D spend.
Ubers total R&D costs in 2018 were more than $1.5 billion.
Uber filed its S-1 on Thursday, laying the groundwork for the transportation company to go public next month.
This comes less than one month after competitor Lyfts debut on the public market.
Uber is listing under the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol UBER, but has yet to disclose the anticipated initial public offering price.
Uber believes that autonomous vehicles will be an important part of its offerings over the long term, namely that AVs can increase safety, make rides more efficient and lower prices for customers.
However, the transportation company struck a more conservative tone in the prospectus on how and when autonomous vehicles will be deployed, a striking difference from the early days of Uber ATG when former CEO Travis Kalanick called AVs an existential risk to the business.
Uber contends there will be a long period of hybrid autonomy and it will continue to rely on human drivers for its core business for the foreseeable future.
Uber said even when autonomous vehicle taxis are deployed, it will still need human drivers for situations that involve substantial traffic, complex routes, or unusual weather conditions.
Human drivers will also be needed during concerts, sporting events and other high-demand events that will likely exceed the capacity of a highly utilized, fully autonomous vehicle fleet, the company wrote in the S-1.
Heres an excerpt from the S-1: Along the way to a potential future autonomous vehicle world, we believe that there will be a long period of hybrid autonomy, in which autonomous vehicles will be deployed gradually against specific use cases while Drivers continue to serve most consumer demand.
As we solve specific autonomous use cases, we will deploy autonomous vehicles against them.
Such situations may include trips along a standard, well-mapped route in a predictable environment in good weather.
Uber contends it is well-suited to balance that potentially awkward in-between phase when both human drivers and autonomous vehicles will co-exist on its platform.
Drivers are therefore a critical and differentiating advantage for us and will continue to be our valued partners for the long-term, Uber wrote.
Despite Ubers forecast and more tempered tone, the company is pushing ahead on autonomous vehicles.
Uber ATG was founded in 2015 in Pittsburgh with just 40 researchers from Carnegie Robotics and Carnegie Mellon University .
Today, Uber ATG has more than 1,000 employees spread out in offices in Pittsburgh, San Francisco and Toronto.
Uber acknowledged under the risk factors section of the S-1 that it could fail to develop and successfully commercialize autonomous vehicle technologies or could be undercut by competitors, which would threaten its ride-hailing and delivery businesses.
Ubers view of which companies pose the biggest threat to the company was particularly interesting.
The company named nearly a dozen potential competitors, a list that contained a few of the usual suspects like Waymo, GM Cruise and Zoox, as well as less-known startups such as May Mobility and Anthony Levandowskis new company, Prontio.ai.
Other competitors listed in the S-1 include Tesla, Apple, Aptiv, Aurora and Nuro.
Argo AI, the subsidiary of Ford, was not listed.
ATG has built more than 250 self-driving vehicles and has three partnerships Volvo, Toyota and Daimler that illustrates the companys mult-tiered strategy to AVs.
Uber has a first-party agreement with Volvo.
Under the agreement announced in August 2016, Uber owns Volvo vehicles, has added its AV tech and plans to deploy those cars on its own network.
Its partnership with Daimler is on the other extreme.
In that partnership, announced in January 2017, Daimler will introduce a fleet of its own AVs on the Uber network.
This is similar to Lyfts partnership with Aptiv.
Finally, theres Toyota, a new partnership just announced in August 2018, that is a hybrid of sorts of the other two.
Uber says it expects to integrate its autonomous vehicle technologies into purpose-built Toyota vehicles to be deployed on its network.
SpaceXs Falcon Heavy launch vehicle successfully undertook its first commercial mission today, taking a communications satellite to orbit and proving the viability of its heavy-lift rocket platform.
And as a piece de resistance, all three rocket cores autonomously landed themselves back on Earth and will soon be ready to fly again.
The mission is still underway, but the most dangerous moments are over with, and the system passed with flying colors.
Itll be some time before the next second stage burn and separation from the payload, at which point the mission will be considered a success.
Update: Arabsat-6A has detached in the desired orbit and the mission is a success!
The launch is a powerful endorsement of Falcon Heavy, which provides far more payload capacity, at far lower cost, than any competitor.
New launch vehicles are being tested by SpaceXs numerous competitors, but Falcon Heavy has the advantage of already existing and working as designed.
All planned launch events went as planned, though high winds delayed takeoff yesterday.
After takeoff at about 6:35 local time in Cape Canaveral, the two first stages detached and made a picture-perfect landing at LZ-1 and LZ-2; the center core landed on the the drone ship Of Course I Still Love You.
The latter was a bit of a nailbiter, as the video cut out just as the center core boosters retro began to light the pad.
But good signal a handful of seconds later revealed the final third of the trifecta.
It must be said that the crowd was going absolutely wild basically from T-0 to T+10 minutes, when the center core landed.
Landing all three has never been done, and drone ship landings have led to some of SpaceXs most public (not to say embarrassing) failures.
No word on whether SpaceX caught or attempted to catch the fairings that covered the payload during launch we may hear about this later, depending on whether its a success or not.
We just finished YCombinator.
Surrounding Demo Day, we went to a lot of investor meetings.
Such conversations are usually well-choreographed and methodical but their physical conditions can be variable and random.
The following will massively (though subtly) impact the flow of a meeting 1.
Furniture 2.
Room layout 3.
Where people sit Despite the outsized impact the above can have on the outcome, their configuration is often haphazard.
I have been documenting my findings for you.
Before I continue, I should mention that I think a lot about seating.
I spoke to NPR once about where to sit at dinner.
Maybe I think about it too much.
My previous article outlines basic tactics for unassigned seat selection at the dinner table.
Pitch meetings arent usually held at a dinner table (thankfully), but many of the same seating principles apply.
Investor meetings introduce notable differences: Table size is rarely optimized for party size Conversation is semi-structured, as opposed to freeform There are two sides (and sometimes one is outnumbered) Here are some of the configurations weve encountered so far:
If youve ever had a voicemail appear out of nowhere, theres a good chance Stratics Networks was involved.
The Toronto-based company is the self-proclaimed inventor of ringless voicemails, providing its customers a way of auto-dialing a list of phone numbers and dropping voicemails without leaving a missed call.
The system uses a backdoor voicemail number typically reserved by the carrier to leave a voicemail directly in a persons mailbox.
The company once claimed it can process up to 10,000 ringless voicemails per minute if you pay for it.
But the company left its back-end storage server open without a password, exposing thousands of outgoing and incoming recordings.
Security researcher John Wethington found the exposed server and asked TechCrunch to contact Stratics to secure the data.
The server, hosted on Amazon Web Services, contained at least 100,000 recordings from more than 4,000 folders, each representing a single customer campaign.
According to BinaryEdge data, the exposed server was first detected on April 5, but may have been exposed for longer.
This data was open to anyone with a browser and required no special access or privileges, Wethington told TechCrunch.
I genuinely hope we were the first to identify it and responsibly disclose it because if that data is in unethical or criminal hands its going to be abused.
Organizations must consider the privacy ethics and not just the regulations when offering services, he said.
The potential for abuse and privacy violations is every corporation and executives responsibility.
Customers use the companys offering to leave voicemails without needing someone to call each person from debt collectors to doctors offices reminding patients about upcoming appointments.
Not only does the company allow customers to record outgoing voicemails to ensure a voicemail actually dropped, it also records incoming calls when someone picks up.
It was those recordings that were exposed, said Wethington.
TechCrunch reviewed several folders of recordings.
In one case, we found several counties in Florida used Stratics to inform citizens that their election postal ballots were set to expire.
One folder contained more than 5,200 audio recordings on callers responding to voicemail drops sent by Broward County and Hillsborough County.
Of the several recordings we heard, many provided sensitive information over the phone including their names, addresses, dates of birth and, in some cases, their voter ID numbers.
Other folders in the exposed data contained dozens of incoming call recordings from those who had been sent a voicemail drop.
One of those was a law firm, which call center workers identified as Key Tax Group.
Of the calls we reviewed, none knew why they were left an unsolicited voicemail but were all asked by the call center worker if they needed help with their taxes.
At no point were the callers told that the calls were being recorded, despite laws in several states like California and Maryland mandating everyone on the same call agrees that the call can be recorded.
Each recording had the unsuspected callers phone number in the filename.
When contacted by TechCrunch, several of the victims of the cold-call scam confirmed they lived in states with two-party laws.
And, one other company, which the call center worker identified as Michigan Comfort, received more than a hundred calls as recently as this month from people who had been dropped an unsolicited voicemail.
Much to the same pattern as the law firm, those callers were asked if they were interested in a duct inspection or a furnace rebate.
You shouldnt call people out of the blue and neither should your company, said one angry victim in a recording.
Although Stratics website says it does not tolerate spam in any form, the company puts the onus of compliance with the customers.
You are 100% liable for compliance when making calls originating under your account, says its website.
Shortly after contacting the company Thursday about the data exposure, the leaking server had been secured.
We take compliance and data security very seriously, and we are currently investigating to determine to what extent, if any, information has been exposed to unauthorized access, said Chris Collins, a spokesperson for Stratics.
We have currently engaged an outside legal firm to guide us in our investigation.
We are also engaging a third party cyber security firm to perform a full internal security audit.
TechCrunch sent Stratics several questions about spam and call recording.
Collins said Stratics would block users found in violation of its policies, and that its customers bore the responsibility to follow all local, state and federal call recording laws.
Following our disclosure, the company had pulled its discover section from the site.
When asked, Collins said this was to avoid our website from being overloaded in response to this article.
We also asked how long the data was exposed, if the company will notify customers and regulators per state data breach notification laws or if anyone else had accessed the storage server.
Stratics declined to comment further.
The human body remains robust and resilient after almost a year in space, according to a long-term, multi-institutional study of twins, one of whom lived aboard the International Space Station for 340 days while the other remained on Earth.
These heartening results remove a potential barrier to crewed interplanetary missions and just in time for us to start planning them.
The study, conducted by NASA and its partners on the American astronauts Scott and Mark Kelly, minutely monitored the twins vitals to see what if any changes occurred to the twin in orbit (Scott) that didnt to the twin below (Mark).
And changes there were, but nothing worrying enough that souls brave enough to go to space will second-guess their profession.
We have only scratched the surface of knowledge about the body in space, explained Jennifer Fogarty, chief scientist of NASAs Human Research Program.
The Twins Study gave us the first integrated molecular view into genetic changes, and demonstrated how a human body adapts and remains robust and resilient even after spending nearly a year aboard the International Space Station.
The data captured from integrated investigations like the NASA Twins Study will be explored for years to come.
There have been previous studies that showed how microgravity and other factors lead to, for example, lower bone density, and consequently the need to address those specific trends with changes to diet or habits.
But this is by far the longest anyone has had their health monitored in space, and having a twin on the ground to use as a control body makes for incredibly powerful yet still limited results.
(Here it seems only fair to note that Mark Kelly is also an accomplished veteran astronaut, not just a control body.)
Some expected occurrences included weight loss, lower blood pressure, and eyesight problems due to the lack of gravity.
But the length and nature of the study also allowed for several interesting new phenomena in the immunological and molecular domains to be considered.
Theres good news and bad news.
Telomeres are parts of our chromosomes that help with, among other things, maintaining our genes.
They were immediately affected by presence in space and genetic variation six times that of the control was observed.
They lengthened considerably, then upon return to Earth were much shorter than normal.
What causes this and what effects it could have are unknown.
That genetic variation also returned to normal when returning to the surface for the most part.
But about 7 percent, many relating to immune response and DNA repair, didnt.
Is there a reason for those genes being affected?
Its impossible to say with a sample size of one.
Its also important to note that these genes werent necessarily damaged or anything, but that their expression levels had changed.
The DNA itself remained intact.
Fortunately, the immune system itself functioned perfectly during and after Scotts time in space.
Thats hugely important, as a weakened immune system could be hugely troublesome on a long, isolated trip to another planet where no additional medical aid can be provided.
The genetic damage may be slightly worrying, but honestly if thats the biggest issue emerging out of someone spending a year in a can floating through space, its seriously good news.
The brain (the most critical part of an astronaut) worked great the circulatory system adapted well muscles and bones stayed in great shape.
Potential telomeric damage and genetic variation arent fun, but they arent showstoppers either and may very well be preventable.
Considering expeditions to the planned lunar base would almost certainly be longer in duration than those to the ISS, this is great news for the blooming extra-orbital space community.
And missions to Mars, as difficult as they may be otherwise, will not have to contend with immune systems shutting down or brain damage from blood pressure changes.
That kind of confidence goes a long way.
This study is only the first of many, to be sure, and in fact the teams warn that, because they only had the one person in space as an experimental group, it is impossible to attribute causality to spaceflight versus a coincidental event.
Therefore, our study should be considered as hypothesis-generating and framework-defining and must be complemented in the future by studies of additional astronauts.
Expect more studies both of this data and whatever gets gathered from future missions to test and verify the results published today.
You can read the full paper in the journal Science, and hear much more about the setup and the twins themselves at NASAs Twins Study page.
Organic meal delivery service Trifecta is partnering with Beyond Meat to bring the companys plant-based meat replacements to its prepared meal and la carte delivery service, the companies said today.
Unlike its biggest competitor, Impossible Foods (which chose to go a business-to-business route supplying its meat replacement to restaurants), Beyond Meat primarily went through the grocery store aisle to reach consumers.
This marks the first time that prepared Beyond Meat foods will be available through a delivery service.
The provision of plant-based proteins will complement Trifectas prepared food offerings for consumers looking for keto, vegan, vegetarian, paleo or other diets, the company said.
With Trifecta fast becoming a household name within the health and fitness community, we did not have a high protein, low carb, low saturated fat option for our plant-based product lines, so Beyond Meat was a perfect fit for us, said Greg Connolly, Trifectas chief executive, in a statement.
Trifecta meals only use USDA Organic ingredients that are never frozen and are either wild caught or grass-fed, the company said.
It also offers an option for customers to choose their own meals based on macronutrient needs.
The company said its food items arrive in a refrigerated case, fully cooked and ready to eat.
Its direct to consumer meals are available in all 50 states.
Most documentary filmmakers want to convince you that the story theyre telling is important.
But Theo Love, director of the new Netflix documentary The Legend of Cocaine Island, said he was attracted to his subject matter for the opposite reason.
A lot of the documentary subject matter that we had been considering and that we saw out there was pretty dark and very, very painfully important, Love told me.
I wanted to make something that wasnt important at all.
I wanted to make something that was kind of just a silly story and that was just for entertainment.
As Love explains in the latest episode of the Original Content podcast, Cocaine Island tells the story of Rodney Hyden, a middle-aged man with no drug-trafficking experience who learns about millions of dollars worth of cocaine that is supposedly buried on a Caribbean island.
Hyden actually plays himself in the film not just as an interview subject, but in reenactments of key moments in the story.
Love explained that choice as a combination of necessity meets inspiration.
Look, this is an indie film, and we didnt have a huge budget to get Jack Black or John Goodman to do the recreations, he said.
But when we met Rodney, it was pretty clear from the get-go that he could do [them].
He just had that type of charisma, that you wanted to watch him.
And while the film was made independently before being picked up by Netflix (which also gave the documentary its current name), Love said he was thinking about the streaming service from the start.
I mean, documentaries really changed because of Netflix, he said.
And the audience that documentaries are getting has changed drastically over the last decade because of Netflix.
Theyve brought documentaries to the masses.
You can listen in the player below, subscribe using Apple Podcasts or find us in your podcast player of choice.
If you like the show, please let us know by leaving a review on Apple.
You also can send us feedback directly.
(Or suggest shows and movies for us to review!)
As Uber gears up for its highly anticipated public debut, the company is setting aside some dough for drivers that have logged some serious rides on the platform as a reward for sticking with the service.
The company follows Lyft, which also rewarded drivers with one-time cash bonuses during its public offering.
The company is setting aside a number of shares of common stock at the initial IPO price that drivers who earn this appreciation award will be able to purchase.
Drivers will get $100, $500, $1,000 or $10,000 for completing 2,500, 5,000, 10,000 or 20,000 lifetime trips, respectively.
The caveat being that drivers will need to have also completed at least one ride in 2019 as of April 7 and be in good standing.
Weve reached out to Uber about what exactly that means.
Ubers driver appreciation awards are pretty identical to what Lyft did for its public offering, which awarded drivers with 10,000 and 20,000 rides with $1,000 and $10,000 respectively.
The key difference being Uber has some nice smaller cash bonuses for less-prolific drivers.
Uber detailed that for drivers outside of the United States, the appreciation award may be adjusted on a region-by-region basis to account for differences in average hourly earnings by region.
Good and bad news, YouTube TV subscribers.
YouTube is adding nine new channels to its live TV service.
But it's also raising prices.
Previously priced at $39.99 a month, YouTube TV now costs $49.99 a month.
Those billed through Apple, meanwhile, will be charged $54.99 per month.
The price hike went into effect Wednesday for new members.
Existing subscribers will see the new rate on their bills after May 13.
As a silver lining, YouTube is adding Discovery Channel, HGTV, Food Network, TLC, Investigation Discovery, Animal Planet, Travel Channel, and MotorTrend to the service.
The company also plans to add OWN: Oprah Winfrey Network later this year.
You can also now subscribe to Epix through YouTube TV for an extra charge.
In a statement, YouTube TV VP of Product Management Christian Oestlien said the company is raising prices "to keep bringing you the best service possible."
YouTube TV earned an "excellent" rating in PCMag's review earlier this year.
We praised its "excellent lineup of sports and news channels," "robust and easy-to-use DVR features," and "intuitive user interface."
On the down side, we noted it was missing some popular channels, but the additions announced this week should help with that.
YouTube TV isn't the only video streaming service to get more expensive as of late.
AT&T recently raised the price of its DirecTV Now service by $10.
Hulu in January also gave its live TV plan a $5 price hike, and Netflix that same month raised prices by $1 to $2 across the board.
This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.
Facebook has dominated the tech news for months with a variety of privacy issues, from hacked accounts to user data stolen to Russian bots spying on us.
But now the social media giant is making headlines for a different reason.
Facebook officials say they want to install a massive underwater fiber optic cable, just not for the U.S.
The multi-stage project is reportedly named "Simba" - yes, like "Simba" from The Lion King.
Its goal is to connect the entire continent of Africa to the internet, increasing accessibility while also driving down bandwidth prices significantly, which could make it easier to sign up new users.
And it could be a major disruption to the current service provider model.
For the most part, internet service connects continents by way of underwater fiber optic cables capable of carrying massive amounts of data.
There are a dozen such cables between the Northeastern United States and Europe alone, and many more connecting the hubs of Asia and the Mideast.
But getting into the fiber optic business would be a big jump for Facebook - one already made by some of their rivals.
Google has a major investment in running fiber optic cables through its subsidiary, Google Fiber.
But Google's plan is to provide far more connectivity than is needed at the moment, hoping to avoid costly upgrades; it's a way of future-proofing what is expected to be an expensive and labor-intensive process.
In contrast, Amazon has announced they want to blanket the globe with high-speed internet service using thousands of small satellites, not fiber-optics.
As for when the ring of fiber will be placed around Africa, it's hard to say.
The details of the project are still being worked out and there's an obvious lack of infrastructure in many areas at the moment.
But Facebook's 'Whatsapp' messenger program is already popular in the region, providing a potential blueprint for how to proceed with the "Simba" project.
(Kingman, Ariz.) As a small ball of fire shot out of the end of a new 50mm cannon, a cloud of smoke filled the air and, in what seemed like less than one second, an explosion of smoke and fire destroyed a mock enemy target from hundreds of yards away -- on the other side of an Arizona desert valley.
The explosion was precise, burning and shattering a metal target in successive shots of three to five rounds.
This blast effect, weapons developers explain, is precisely the intent for the Armys new 50mm weapon to bring a longer-range, more-lethal measure of firepower to medium caliber armored vehicle attack.
The live-fire demonstration, taking place at Northrop Grummans 2019 Bushmaster User Conference in Kingman, Ariz., was designed to further prepare the weapon for integration onto armored vehicles and, ultimately, send the new cannon to war.
Military representatives from the US and as many as 25 partner nations gathered to see the live-fire demo, which included a host of armored-vehicle weapons and technologies - such as the 50mm cannon.
The cannon attack was part of a live-fire demonstration intended to move the 50mm Bushmaster cannon closer to integration onto a turret and Army armored combat vehicle -- to include the services now-in-development Next-Generation Combat Vehicle slated to emerge in the mid-2020s.
The 50mm cannon, built by Northrop Grumman, is engineered to blend a variety of emerging, high-tech armored vehicle attack technologies into a single system -- to include advanced fire-control, automated targeting sensors, next-gen ammunition, new computer processing speed and longer-range medium caliber attack options.
AIR FORCE CLOUD MIGRATION FIGHTS AI-ENABLED CYBERATTACKS According to Northrop information, the new 50mm cannon, referred to as the experimental XM913, can hit ranges more than twice as far as the roughly 2-kilometer range of the Bradley Fighting Vehicles existing M242 25mm cannon.
Dozens of countries have either parity or overmatch to the Bradley Fighting Vehicles M242, a Northrop statement says.
The 50mm is being engineered to address this potential disparity, by hitting ranges well over 4km.
The Armys Combat Capabilities Development Command at Picatinny Arsenal and Northrop Grummans Armament Systems have partnered to engineer, test and deliver the new cannon While called a 50mm cannon, the new weapon represents a new, high tech iteration of Chain Gun technology first developed as a high-speed 30mm gun for the Apache Attack helicopter.
One senior Northrop weapons developer, Lisa Brown, Vice President of Guns, Northrop Armament Systems, explained this technical trajectory as something bringing Apache lethality to land-based platforms.
The evolution of Chain Gun attack technology has gone through several significant steps.
The Apache 30mm gun, called the M230, provides an initial technological foundation from which subsequent land-fire applications have emerged such as the existing vehicle-mounted 30mm Bushmaster Chain Gun and the new 50mm Chain Gun, or cannon.
A Chain Gun is described as a type of auto-cannon that uses an external source of power to cycle the weapon rather than diverting energy from the cartridge, using a continuous loop.
The 50mm cannon incorporates adaptations of the original Apache 30mm Chain Gun technology, which fires a fast-paced belt of linked ammunition.
While equipped with targeting technology for individual targets, the Apache 30mm can often be used as somewhat of an area weapon to blanket an area with dispersed, mobile rapid-fire attack.
Such a tactic can both lay down suppressive fire, enabling ground troops to maneuver or itself directly destroy small, moving ground targets.
SUBMARINE SURGE: WHY THE NAVY PLANS 32 NEW ATTACK SUBS BY 2034 The new 50mm evolves Chain Gun systems and makes use of a linkless ammunition technology.
This can slow down the pace of fire, from 600 to 200 shots per minute in some cases, bringing precision and higher levels of destruction upon heavier enemy targets, Brown explained.
This is an adaptation of the historic Bushmaster.
With Chain Gun ammo you traditionally have a link belt.now we have ammo boxes that feed the ammunition, John McCollum, Northrops Director of Business Development, Bushmaster Cannons, told Warrior Maven in an interview.
In development for roughly eight years, the 50mm cannon represents a new technical effort to engineer what might be called a middle ground kind of attack cannon; it must not only bring more firepower, range, precision and lethality to armored combat but also integrate into the kinds of expeditionary future armored vehicles sought after by the Army.
In effect, the new cannon represents a new sphere of attack options, lodging itself as a new attack option positioned between a 30mm chain gun such as that fired by the Stryker -- and a heavier 120mm cannon fired by an Abrams tank.
Therefore, the new 50mm canon aligns with the Army future armored combat vehicle strategy which aims to both harness the lethality and survivability afforded by new technologies, yet merge it with unprecedented levels of maneuverability, speed and deployability.
This strategic emphasis, involving a conceptual and technical balancing act, was explained by Maj. Gen. Brian Cummings, Program Executive Officer, Ground Combat Systems, in an interview with Warrior Maven a few months ago.
The NGCV is being built to be upgradeable so as to accommodate new technologies as they emerge to increase firepower and targeting while also lowering weight and increasing combat mobility.
The NGCV, Cummings explained, is being engineered with this particular challenge in mind so that it can quickly be ready for near-term fights and also prepare for the war after next, as he put it.
The idea is to embrace a developmental trajectory designed to optimize continued technological innovation when it comes to achieving an ideal balance between survivability and mobility.
AIR FORCE ARMS B-52 BOMBERS WITH PROTOTYPE NUCLEAR-ARMED CRUISE MISSILES The challenge of merging advanced survivability with battlefield maneuverability has been a central focus for Army developers.
To some extent, its success hinges upon a host of still in development" technologies, Army program managers say.
Some of these include lighter-weight armor composites offering the same or improved protection as current heavy vehicles as well as sophisticated networking, computer processing and integrated long-range sensors.
The 50mm, developers explained, is engineered to integrate with these kinds of systems.
Other technologies expected to integrate with the 50mm include Active Protection Systems and various iterations of AI and EW tactics designed to jam or disable enemy communications and incoming weapons.
The Armys new NGCV is also called an optionally manned vehicle, a designation which raises the possibility of having a forward-positioned lethal armored vehicle able to conduct attack and reconnaissance missions without placing human crews at risk.
In this scenario, fast, lighter-weight vehicles armed with substantial firepower such as a 50mm cannon could bring a new level of attack possibilities.
Interestingly, the challenge of merging mobility with protection and integrated sensors is taken up in a 2017 essay in the Defence Science Journal.
The essay, called Armored Fighting Vehicles Future Perspective.
refers to future armored vehicle design as a great challenge, considering the emergence of various new technologies and the need to effectively integrate it in the vehicle.
A priori configuration model to evaluate the tactical mobility, and protection requirements with respect to weight and volume of various systems can lead to a compact fighting vehicle.
The essay, it seems clear, refers to the difficult task of maximizing firepower on what may need to be a smaller vehicle able to achieve the requisite amount of maneuverability, high-tech computing, sensor integration and speed.
This goal of blending seemingly contradictory attributes, without compromising survivability, is exactly what the Army has in mind.
PENTAGON GIVES F-22S 'FIRST STRIKE' CAPABILITY WORLDWIDE WITH RAPID RAPTOR PROGRAM The new 50mm specifically built to help address this challenge by seeking to optimize massive firepower with the kind of expeditionary vehicle envisioned for the NGCV.
The need, according to Army developers, is to engineer armored combat vehicles faster and more easily deployable than large platforms like an Abrams tank, which can at times have mobility limitations due to its weight.
A 70-ton Abrams, for instance, may have trouble crossing certain bridges or keeping pace with some fast moving infantry units.
Perhaps of greatest significance, the 50mm adds a new suite of more lethal ammunition options, bringing a vastly increased envelope of combat effects.
The new gun has a full suite of ammunition, including high-explosive rounds, airburst rounds and armor-piercing rounds; it is the same as the current 30 173 rounds fired by the Stryker, yet with additional reach and lethality.
The ammunition, a major emphasis of the 50mms developmental trajectory, will include both airburst ammunition and a proximity fuse.
When the ammunition technology roadmap is complete, we hope to bring proximity fusing to the weapon...and potentially guide the ammunition .
which will let us get out to some extended ranges and hit targets you typically cannot hit with direct fire systems, Dan Olson vice president of Northrop Grummans Armament Systems Business Unit, told Warrior Maven in an interview.
A proximity fuse, for instance, is an existing technology now being adapted to the 50mm, Northrop weapons developers say; it will enable a round to explode in the area of a target instead of attacking in a more narrow or linear way.
This kind of blast effect brings a possibility to disperse lethal, explosive materials across a wider area and destroy different kinds of targets such as groups of on-the-move enemy fighters.
Olson explained that the 50mm, in combination with its airburst rounds, will bring a new ability to destroy targets in defilade or otherwise not observable to attackers due to an obstruction such as a rock or wall.
By exploding at a predetermined point above or near the intended target, airburst rounds disperse lethal explosive material such that it can destroy an enemy hiding behind a rock.
While airburst rounds already exist, and can, for instance, be fired from a Stryker-mounted 30mm gun, the Army and Northrop are adapting the technology to the 50mm.
AIR FORCE FAST-TRACKS NEW NUCLEAR MISSILES Currently in the air burst munition you can suppress targets out in the open to about 2,200 meters.
With the 50mm gun, you can suppress targets out to 4,200 meters.
This is leap ahead technology compared to what we currently have with 25 and 30mm guns, Brown said.
The existing 30mm cannon can not only arm the Stryker, but lightweight variants can also mount onto thinner-skinned vehicles such as a Humvee or even a pick-up truck.
This 50mm cannon lethality effect, as described by Olson, goes beyond this through use of a larger cannon and warhead able to destroy heavier targets.
Significantly, multiple ammunition effects for the new 50mm cannon exist within the same, single form factor size, shape and general configuration bringing several attack options into a single size round.
This advantage was anticipated in another chapter of the Defence Science Journal essay, which states it is to be noted that as the variety in ammunition increases due to mission requirements, the dimensions need to be same to achieve uniformity in configuration.
This emphasis upon ammunition configuration is quite significant, according to Northrop information, which explains that the Bradleys current 25mm round is not conducive for the development of advanced ammunition, including Proximity Sensing ammunition.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Following some additional live-fire testing to refine some of the mechanics for the weapon, the Army and Northrop plan to work with turret manufacturers to mount the weapon onto armored fighting vehicles for further development.
McCollum said that the gun, as a heavier variant of the known Bushmaster chain gun family, should not be too difficult to integrate.
More Weapons and Technology -WARRIOR MAVEN (CLICK HERE)
Google is the latest tech giant to be accused of bias against the newly released pro-life film Unplanned, with the search engine listing the movie as propaganda.
Unplanned is the story of a Planned Parenthood clinic director who becomes an anti-abortion activist.
The Daily Signals Kelsey Bolar noted Thursday that Google classifies Unplanned as a drama/propaganda.
Who knew that propaganda was a movie genre?
Google once again exposing its gross political bias, Bolar tweeted a screenshot of search results, which have been verified by Fox News.
LIBERAL COMEDIAN KNOCKS 'UNPLANNED' AS 'MOSTLY MADE-UP' PROPAGANDA Another Twitter user compared the search results of Unplanned with those of left-leaning films like the Dick Cheney biopic Vice and the documentaries of Michael Moore.
None of them were considered propaganda by Google.
Fox News also researched the Google results of the Gods Not Dead film series and documentaries made by conservative filmmaker Dinesh D'Souza.
None of those films were labeled propaganda" either.
A Google spokesperson explained to Fox News that its "Knowledge Graph" analyzed web content on "Unplanned" and that a large volume of it described the film as propaganda and placed the label without a universal consensus.
"When we're made aware of disputed facts in our Knowledge Graph, we work to fix the issues, as weve done in this case," the spokesperson told Fox News.
Google has updated the search results so that "propaganda" no longer appears as the genre.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In March, supporters of "Unplanned" accused Twitter of unfair treatment after that social media platform blocked the films account and, critics say, suppressed the films number of followers.
The lumbering behemoth that is iTunes may finally be nearing the end of its life.
According to 9to5Mac and a tweet from iPhone app developer Steven Troughton-Smith, the next version of macOS, version 10.15, will break up iTunes into different apps for music, podcasts, and TV.
Apple released iTunes in 2001; it allowed people to organize their music collections digitally and add new music to iPods before music-streaming services and Wi-Fi syncing were ubiquitous (and when ripping and burning CDs was still a thing).
The current program, however, has been repurposed so many times to include all manner of media that most users agree it's just too bloated to be sustainable.
The logical step forward for Apple is to create separate, more elegant apps that can more efficiently deal with customers' media.
And that appears to be what's happening.
Apple already confirmed at its March press event that its TV app will arrive on the Mac this fall.
You'll be able to access Apple's new TV+ streaming service, as well as movies and TV shows for rent or purchase, and pay TV subscriptions.
At the moment, Podcasts and Apple Music are accessible via iTunes on macOS.
The break-off apps are likely going to be made with Marzipan, Apple's in-development technology that allows apps to be developed and run seamlessly across the iPhone, iPad, and Mac, 9to5Mac says.
But don't mourn iTunes just yet.
The program will remain in macOS 10.15, according to 9to5Mac, since Apple needs to figure out how to sync iPods and iPhones with the Mac.
Expect more details at Apple's Worldwide Developers' Conference (WWDC) in June.
This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.
Disney chairman and CEO Bob Iger rebuked social media companies like Facebook and Twitter during a ceremony in which he was being honored with a humanitarian award on Thursday.
The billionaire executive, whose company reportedly considered a purchase of Twitter as recently as October 2017, seems to have had a major change of heart about Big Tech platforms.
Hitler would have loved social media, Iger said, according to Variety, upon receiving the Simon Wiesenthal Center's Humanitarian Award.
Its the most powerful marketing tool an extremist could ever hope for because by design social media reflects a narrow world view filtering out anything that challenges our beliefs while constantly validating our convictions and amplifying our deepest fears."
DEMS WANT US GOVERNMENT TO AUDIT 'BLACK BOX' OF AI BIAS He continued, It creates a false sense that everyone shares the same opinion.
Social media allows evil to prey on troubled minds and lost souls and we all know that social news feeds can contain more fiction than fact, propagating vile ideology that has no place in a civil society that values human life.
Studies have found that social networks create filter bubbles where users don't interact with anyone outside of their own belief system, if they want to.
The U.S. intelligence community found that Russia harnessed Facebook and Twitter to interfere in the 2016 presidential election.
Scholars and activists have long pointed out that social media can be used to spread hate and conspiracies and to manipulate the public.
The 68-year-old mogul also had some choice words for America's discourse.
AMAZON WORKERS TO TECH EXECS: DO MORE TO FIGHT CLIMATE CHANGE Hate and anger are dragging us toward the abyss once again, Iger reportedly said.
Apathy is actually growing.
In the last few years, we have been harshly reminded that hate takes many forms, sometimes disguising itself as more socially acceptable expression like fear or resentment or contempt.
It is consuming our public discourse and shaping our county and culture into something that is wholly unrecognizable to those of us who still believe in civility, human rights and basic decency.
Rabbi Jeffrey Myers of Pittsburghs Tree of Life Synagogue, Holocaust resistance hero Kurt Kleinman and immigrant rights activist Florence Phillips were also honored by the Simon Wiesenthal Center.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
Can the algorithms powering innovation at Silicon Valley's largest companies, like Amazon, Facebook and Google, be audited for bias?
Whether you're searching for information on Google, being subjected to facial recognition technology built by Amazon, wondering if your Facebook post will be taken down or curious whether your resume made it to the top of the pile, behind-the-scenes systems fueled by essentially unknowable algorithms are powering these and countless other online and offline processes.
A bill introduced on Wednesday by Democratic Sens.
Ron Wyden and Cory Booker called the Algorithmic Accountability Act aims to force tech giants to audit their machine-learning and artificial intelligence systems for bias.
A similar bill has been introduced in the House of Representatives.
THOUSANDS OF AMAZON WORKERS LISTEN TO RECORDINGS FROM ALEXA: REPORTS Tech firms have been loath to share much information about how these internal computational systems work.
As such, they are often characterized as "black boxes" with the potential for abuse.
Where there's no light, critics say, bias and discrimination against groups based on race, gender and other traits can flourish.
The harms are not evenly distributed, but this is in our lives, right?
Meredith Whittaker, a co-founder of the AI Now Institute, asked in a recent conversation with Kara Swisher.
There are license-plate profiling AIs that are sort of tracking people as they go over different bridges in New York.
You have systems that are determining which school your child gets enrolled in.
You have automated essay scoring systems that are determining whether its written well enough.
Whose version of written English is that?
And what is it rewarding or not?
What kind of creativity can get through that?
The bill would empower the Federal Trade Commission to create and enforce new rules for companies to check for accuracy, bias and potential privacy or security concerns in their automated systems, and to correct them if issues are discovered.
Smaller firms that make less than $50 million per year are exempted, unless they are data brokers with information on at least 1 million customers.
AMAZON EMPLOYEES TO EXECS: DO MORE ON CLIMATE CHANGE Computers are increasingly involved in so many of the key decisions Americans make with respect to their daily lives whether somebody can buy a home, get a job or even go to jail, Sen. Ron Wyden said in an interview with The Associated Press.
Advocates for a more ethical approach to artificial intelligence have pointed out that machine learning systems are still built by humans in terms of Silicon Valley's biggest players, that typically means white men and therefore should not be seen as neutral or infallible.
[Amazon] took two years to design, essentially, an AI automatic resume scanner, the AI Now Institute's Kate Crawford told Swisher on the podcast.
And they found that it was so biased against any female applicant that if you even had the word woman on your resume that it went to the bottom of the pile.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
The U.S. Air Force is preparing to fire a fighter-jet configured laser pod from the ground as a key step toward achieving its goal of firing lasers from jets on combat missions in the air.
As a part of its preparation, the service is refining its combat strategy, tactics and concepts of operation to accommodate the rapid emergence of laser weapons, technologies which promise to alter the landscape of modern warfare and substantially expand the envelope of attack possibilities for fighter jets.
The service anticipates having aircraft and fighter jet-fired lasers in operation as soon as the early 2020s, as mobile power systems and other integral technologies continue to evolve rapidly.
Not only do laser weapons bring increased precision attacks at the speed of light to incinerate targets, but they can be scaled or adjusted to achieve the desired effect -- such as total destruction, partial damage or an even smaller, more measured impact, depending upon the threat.
WHAT HAPPENED WHEN I FIRED MY FIRST SNIPER SHOT Laser weapons offer warfighters opportunities for quick and precise target engagement, flexibility and lighter and more responsive support logistics, Eva Blaylock, spokeswoman for the Air Force Research Laboratory, told Warrior Maven in a written statement.
The Air Force Research Lab, which has been leading the effort from Kirtland Air Force Base, has been working on laser weapons development for many years now.
They have already conducted several ground-fire tests and are now preparing for initial air-launched demonstrations.
This next test, according to AFRL information, will assess the ability of a fighter-jet configured weapons pod to successfully target and fire lasers, in anticipation of airborne integration.
The first airborne tests are expected to take place by 2021, Air Force officials have said.
The developmental efforts are focused on increasing the power, precision and guidance of existing laser weapon applications with the hope of moving from 10-kilowatts up to 100 kilowatts.
Air Force weapons developers are also working on the guidance mechanisms to enable laser weapons to stay on-track on a particular target.
Air Force leaders have said that the service plans to begin firing laser weapons from larger platforms such as C-17s and C-130s until technological miniaturization efforts can configure the weapon to fire from fighter jets such as an F-15, F-16 or F-35.
Given the state of current technology, cargo planes are better equipped in the short term to transport the requisite amount of mobile on-board power needed for airborne lasers.
The two major ARFL programs include an air-to-air weapons program called the Self-Protect High Energy Laser Demonstrator (SHIELD) and a ground-fired Demonstrator Laser Weapon System.
AFRL is working with Lockheed Martin on SHIELD in anticipation of having operational lasers within the next few years.
Solid-state laser weapons rely purely upon electricity and do not need to draw upon certain specific chemicals as other lasers do.
Essentially, they can disable or, if needed, incinerate a target with tremendous heat.
PENTAGON SEEKS DRONE-FIRED LASERS TO DESTROY NUCLEAR-ARMED MISSILES Given the advent of laser weapons, fighter pilots are preparing for new tactical possibilities, such as an ability to attack multiple targets at once and rapidly retarget, Air Force Research Laboratory papers explain.
While current fighters, such as the F-35, are able to launch simultaneous air-to-air attacks on enemy targets such as planes and drones, pilots preparing to fire lasers will have an even greater ability to engage multiple targets concurrently.
This, among other things, will enable fighter jets to engage in close-combat in higher risk scenarios where they might encounter multiple enemy aircraft.
Perhaps of greatest significance, laser weapons are entirely scalable, Blaylock added.
Scalability is achieved in many instances by combining or merging several beams into one, AFRL states.
The type of gradual effects a 30kW laser can deliver includes the denial, degradation, disruption, and destruction of a range of targets from UAS to small boats at a range of several kilometers.
More powerful lasers have counter-air, counter-ground, and counter-sea applications against a host of hardened military equipment and vehicles at significant range, Blaylock added.
An attack option such as this might give pilots an ability to degrade rather than destroy targets, a possibility potentially not afforded by conventional weapons such as air-to-air or air-to-ground missiles and bombs.
Perhaps, for instance, an aircraft might wish to disable an enemy asset such as a plane, vehicle or enemy fixture of some kind without killing people, should civilians be in close proximity.
A Congressional Research Service report from earlier this year on Directed Energy Programs, also details some of the key advantages and limitations of fast-evolving laser weapons.
DE (directed energy) could be used as both a sensor and a weapon, thereby shortening the sensor-to-shooter timeline to seconds.
This means that U.S. weapon systems could conduct multiple engagements against a target before an adversary could respond, the Congressional report states.
As developers advance miniaturization of mobile, onboard power system, fighters and cargo aircraft will increasingly operate with an ability to carry a deep magazine without adding large amounts of weight to a plane.
This brings a number of distinct advantages, such as greater fuel efficiency, speed and maneuverability.
A transportable arsenal of laser weapons might remove the need for a fighter jet to travel with large amounts of heavy bombs and missiles, allowing the aircraft to operate with increased air-to-air maneuverability and extended mission time.
MEET THE 29-YEAR-OLD SCIENTIST BEHIND THE FIRST IMAGE OF A BLACK HOLE A lighter-weight aircraft, naturally, will have increased dwell time to seek emerging targets by virtue of not having to refuel as often.
As something able to operate with a decreased logistical footprint, a laser-armed fighter jet may also operate for longer periods of time without needing to re-arm, generating yet another avenue through which to extend missions.
For a 30 kW laser system, the batteries could weigh on the order of 300 pounds and fit within a volume of half of a cubic meter, the AFRL essay states.
All of this means pilots and ground-weapons operators will need to employ new tactics and concepts of operation as they prepare for longer, faster missions and prepare for the ability to launch scalable attacks.
Laser power is increased, AFRL developers explain, by use of a two-color fiber amplifier.
Alongside these known advantages, laser weapons development also faces a number of substantial hurdles as it comes closer to operational status, according to AFRL information.
Not only do laser weapons need to be further ruggedized for war, but various beam controls need to be integrated to optimize precision and preclude the impact of aero-mechanical jitter."
Beam control systems must be adequately advanced so as to enable precise aiming, tracking, and pointing amidst the aero-mechanical jitter induced by vibrations during flight, an AFRL paper states.
If system weight and heat are properly managed, there will be much less beam attenuation or dispersion of the laser impact.
High-speed aerodynamic flow must be mitigated to avoid aero-optical disturbances, AFRL data states.
Effective thermal management systems can drastically increase the rate of fire, either through traditional liquid cooling loops or through two-phase cooling, wherein heat is transferred to and melts a solid, the resulting liquid of which is then cooled.
Defensive laser weapons are bringing great promise to the US military as well.
Given that laser can also perform a sensor function, they might be able to acquire and knock out an incoming enemy missile.
They could operate as "interceptors" traveling at the speed of light, offering a quick way to destroy enemy attacks, which could include anti-ship missiles, air-to-air missiles and even space-based weapons such as ICBMs.
This is attractive to weapons developers for tactical and financial reasons, as lasers are extremely low cost to fire and could be equally effective against an incoming attack as compared to an expensive interceptor missile.
The Army and Navy are also moving aggressively to develop and deploy offensive and defensive laser weapons.
(stay tuned for more Warrior Maven Laser reports) More Weapons and Technology -WARRIOR MAVEN (CLICK HERE)
Alexa is like having your own personal assistant that never asks for a raise.
The problem is shes always listening and so are thousands of Amazon workers, according to a report.
Teams stationed around the world listen to and transcribe recordings, then send them back into the Echos software to erase the gaps in Alexas ability to understand speech, a report from Bloomberg said.
AMAZON ALEXA ADDS DETAILED NEWS READING OPTION Sometimes the employees can even hear chatter in the background while Alexa is on, but they are not authorized to speak about their work, Bloomberg reported.
The workers, who range from contract to full-time employees, reportedly have signed nondisclosure agreements and listen to up to 1,000 audio clips per nine-hour shifts.
Although Amazon reportedly has procedures in place for when potential criminal conduct is heard, two workers in Romania told Bloomberg that they were told it isnt Amazons job to interfere.
In other cases, the workers said they use internal chat rooms to share recordings they find amusing.
When workers come across a background conversation about personal information like bank details they are supposed to make the audio file as critical data and move on, according to Bloomberg.
We take the security and privacy of our customers personal information seriously.
We only annotate an extremely small number of interactions from a random set of customers in order to improve the customer experience," an Amazon spokesperson told Fox News in a written statement.
"For example, this information helps us train our speech recognition and natural language understanding systems, so Alexa can better understand your requests, and ensure the service works well for everyone."
Alexa users can disable their voice recordings for developing new features.
Apples Siri and Google Assistant also have human workers that listen to snippets of audio, but the companies reported to Bloomberg that the recordings aren't linked to personally identifying information.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP We have strict technical and operational safeguards, and have a zero tolerance policy for the abuse of our system.
Employees do not have direct access to information that can identify the person or account as part of this workflow.
All information is treated with high confidentiality and we use multi-factor authentication to restrict access, service encryption and audits of our control environment to protect it, Amazon told Fox News.
Amazon is facing pressure from thousands of employees to take a stronger stance on climate change.
The employees signed an open letter, calling on the e-commerce giant to adopt a plan to phase out the use of fossil fuels.
The workers also want Amazon to end partnerships with oil and gas companies, and to play a more active role in telling local and federal governments to reduce carbon emissions.
"Amazon has the resources and scale to spark the world's imagination and redefine what is possible and necessary to address the climate crisis," reads the letter, which is signed by more than 4,000 workers.
Wednesday's letter seeks to build support for a shareholder proposal that demands Amazon release a plan to address climate change.
According to the protesting workers, the proposal is on track for a shareholder's vote next month, but company leadership is preparing to oppose it.
Amazon's current goal is to control the company's carbon footprint over the next decade, not completely eliminate it.
"Our vision to make all Amazon shipments net zero carbon, with 50 percent of all shipments net zero by 2030," a company spokesperson told PCMag.
But the protesting workers say this isn't enough.
"Given Amazon's rate of growth, reaching 50 percent net-zero shipments by 2030 could still be an increase in emissions compared to today," their letter reads.
The protesting works also oppose an Amazon effort to help fossil fuel companies streamline their IT systems to expand oil and gas mining.
Amazon's clients include BP, Shell, and GE Oil and Gas, among others.
"To avert catastrophic warming, the science is clear: we must keep fossil fuels in the ground," their letter adds.
In response, Amazon told PCMag that the company's long-term goal is to power the company's global infrastructure using only renewable energy.
When this might be achieved Amazon didn't say, but the company plans to unveil new sustainability projects this year.
"In operations alone, we have over 200 scientists, engineers, and product designers dedicated exclusively to inventing new ways to leverage our scale for the good of customers and the planet," the company added.
Amazon's past sustainability projects include creating wind and solar farms to power some company buildings.
But on the shipping front, the company recently bought a fleet of 20,000 delivery vans, which reportedly run on diesel.
Wednesday's letter is the latest employee-led protest effort at a major tech company.
Last year, Amazon workers spoke out against the company's plans to sell facial-recognition systems to government agencies over surveillance fears.
A separate shareholder proposal is slated to go up for a vote next month, demanding Amazon stop sales to government clients until the surveillance risks have been addressed.
This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.
Disney's chief executive said that the company has only just started making global layoffs as it works to incorporate its newly acquired assets from 21st Century Fox.
Bob Iger, the chairman and CEO of the Walt Disney Company, added that the job cuts are necessary to generate beneficial synergies, an industry term referring to the impact a business tip-up can have on profits or revenues.
In this case, Disney's executives have forecast about $2 billion in cost saving synergies as the combined company cuts business segments or employees that were duplicated through the Fox acquisition.
"We're just beginning a consolidation process across the world.
And we've been candid about that with people in the organization," Iger told CNBC's David Faber on Thursday.
"There's work to do to get to the synergies that we talked about, which were cost synergies.
We have consolidation ahead of us."
Asked explicitly whether there are more job cuts to come, Iger answered in the affirmative.
"We're very early into this process and I've never second guessed decisions that we've made.
And I'm certainly not going to second guess this one, not at this point anyway," he added.
Iger told that his conversations with Fox's Rupert Murdoch that ultimately led to the $71 billion deal were based on on the launch of Disney+.
The chief executive's sit-down with CNBC came just after Iger and other Disney leaders unveiled Disney+, the company's forthcoming direct-to-consumer offering.
The streaming service is set for launch on Nov. 12 and will cost $6.99 per month or $69.99 per year.
Iger also confirmed at the company's investor day on Thursday that he will step down in 2021.
"I'm expecting my contract to expire at the end of 2021," Iger said during Disney's investor day presentations.
"And I was going to say 'and this time I mean it,' but I've said it before."
Iger has postponed his contract with Disney twice during his tenure and has made a successful Disney+ a priority in his last few years at the head of the company.
"The most important thing is that the company get through the transition seamlessly," Iger told CNBC.
"I believe that two-and-a-half years from now, or roughly two years after we've launched this massive initiative, the company it will be well on its way."
"That will be the right time for a transition at the CEO level.
The Fox acquisition will have been assimilated.
We will be off and running on the direct-to-consumer space," he added.
Shares of Lyft are down more than 20% for the week as investors finally got their first look inside its rival's business, Uber.
The stock is on track to close in the negative four out of five days this week and drop $3 billion in market capitalization.
The stock started the week priced at $74.45 from last Friday's close, above its IPO price of $72.
As of Friday morning, shares traded around $59 with a market capitalization of about $17 billion.
Lyft continued to plunge about 3% on Friday after Uber released its S-1 where it reported 2018 revenue of $11.27 billion compared to Lyft's $2.2 billion.
Uber said it posted a net profit of $997 million in 2018, thought it has a loss of $1.85 billion on an adjusted EBITDA basis.
Lyft reported a loss of $911 million in its public filing.
Still, investors are still uncertain of how to compare the two stocks.
Besides the different components of their businesses, with Uber investing in its freight and meal delivery services on top of ridesharing, their financials are difficult to stack up.
Wedbush Securities analysts gave Lyft a neutral rating on Friday with a 12-month price target of $80, saying concern they've heard from investors prior to Uber's S-1 are not eased much now that it's public.
"And now that Uber's S-1 was released after the close yesterday we think investors don't yet have a whole lot more clarity on some of the key comparable metrics," the analysts wrote.
"Uber does not break out its metrics between the US and international beyond noting that 52% of bookings and 74% of rides come from outside the US.
Additionally, Uber defines its rider metrics by combining both rideshare and Uber Eats riders, so generating metrics like billings per ride, revenue per ride and profit per ride are not fully comparable."
The analysts tried to approximate how the two compare, saying Uber's "ridesharing take rate," defined as revenue over gross bookings, was 22% in 2018 compared to Lyft's 26%.
But they noted that Uber includes tolls and surcharges in gross bookings, unlike Lyft and Uber's numbers were global, which suggests a larger spread of its range.
"We believe there could be continued pressure on Lyft shares while investors wait for Uber's roadshow and dig further into the full financial metrics," Wedbush analysts wrote.
"In our opinion, the battle for market share will be balanced going forward.
We think there's plenty of work to do and time to go until investors start to feel like they are missing out on the 'next Amazon' although we believe Lyft remains in a strong position to capitalize on this fertile market opportunity."
Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.
Watch: Here's everything you need to know about the 300 page Uber IPO filing
Disney shocked the tech and media worlds on Thursday when it announced that its streaming video subscription would cost $6.99 per month or $69.99 per year significantly less than Netflix or Amazon Prime currently cost.
There were gasps at Disney's launch event when it revealed the price.
But the company that might need to make the most changes in response to the Disney+ product is Apple.
Apple said last month that it will release its streaming video service, Apple TV+, this fall.
The subscription service will include exclusive original shows, movies and documentaries produced by Apple.
The company is spending billions of dollars on stars like Oprah Winfrey, Steve Carell, Jennifer Aniston and Steven Spielberg.
But no matter how well Apple's shows and movies end up being received, there's no way that it can compete with the lineup of content that Disney has assembled for Disney+, which will put pressure on Apple to undercut Disney's price or give its shows away for free, as was once the company's strategy, CNBC first reported in October of last year.
"While there is uncertainty in the broader media landscape ... we believe Disney is in the best position to succeed given its unmatched arsenal of content, well recognized global brand and impressive marketing arm," JP Morgan analyst Alexia Quadrani wrote in a note distributed on Friday.
Disney's service will have significantly more robust content than previously expected, the JPM analysts wrote, including the entire Pixar library, a selection of Marvel shows, "Star Wars" movies and "The Simpsons."
That's in addition to original content Disney is creating as well.
"It's called back catalog," RBC technology analyst Mark Mahaney told CNBC.
Compare that to Apple's 35 or so original shows and movies: A handful of series, none of which are major existing franchises, that Apple is bankrolling from scratch.
A TV comedy called "The Morning Show" and an anthology produced by Steven Spielberg called "Amazing Stories" are Apple's flagship scripted shows.
Apple isn't expected to buy licenses for third-party content like Netflix does.
There are some huge names attached to Apple productions, but even if Apple's shows wildly exceed expectations, it's still going to take years to build up fanbases like Disney's properties.
Apple hasn't revealed a price or release date for Apple TV+, which will enable it to pivot in response to Disney if it wants.
Apple hasn't even confirmed if it will charge for Apple TV+, although the company's marketing language strongly suggests it will.
Apple's two current content subscriptions, for news and music, both cost $10 per month.
Consumers are already complaining that they pay for too many content subscriptions.
People could end up passing on Apple for Disney's superior content, especially if it ends up being less expensive than Apple.
Apple could end up returning to its original content plan: Giving away shows for free as part of its digital TV strategy, and creating a platform to charge viewers for subscriptions to legacy media companies, including Disney.
Disney and Apple have historically been eager to partner with each other.
Disney CEO Bob Iger is on Apple's board of directors, and he said on Thursday that Disney+ will most likely be available on Apple devices, including its TV box.
(He also said he recuses himself from all discussions about streaming services at Apple.)
In that scenario, Apple would be able to focus on one of its core strengths: Building a platform for other companies to reach the masses of Apple users, best summed up by Oprah Winfrey at Apple's TV launch: "They're in a billion pockets, y'all."
Disney wouldn't have spent $71 billion on 21st Century Fox assets including National Geographic, "The Simpsons" and its movie studio if it didn't have plans to launch its own streaming service, according to the company's top executive.
Disney Chairman and CEO Bob Iger told CNBC on Thursday that his conversations with Fox's Rupert Murdoch were predicated on the introduction of Disney+ and followed its 2017 purchase of BAMTech, a New York-based streaming media company.
"The opportunity to buy Fox first came up later that year.
In fact, just a few months after the board approved us buying the majority share of BAMTech which was done for one reason, to go into the direct-to-consumer business Rupert and I sat down and talked about a transaction," Iger told CNBC's David Faber.
"We would not have done that transaction had we not decided to go in this direction," Iger continued, "because if we hadn't, we would have been looking at that business and through a traditional lens: 'Oh, we're buying TV channels.
We're buying more movie-making capability, et cetera.'"
"But by the time the acquisition opportunity came up, and we knew we were going in this space, we evaluated what we were buying through this new lens of: 'Wow, what could National Geographic mean to us?'"
Iger's comments came shortly after the company told stakeholders that its new streaming service, Disney+, will launch on Nov. 12 and be available for purchase for $69.99 per year.
The platform will host Disney's extensive vault of feature films ranging from the "Star Wars" franchise to action films from Marvel Studios.
It will also include the myriad Fox assets acquired during the deal that closed in late March.
"What could it mean having access to [Fox's] library, not to monetize it through traditional means, but to do it through this?"
Iger added.
"Bam!
I mean, the light bulb went off."
Netflix tumbled more than 3% on Friday after Disney unveiled its Disney+ streaming service and pricing for the first time.
The drop shed about $5 billion from Netflix's market value, though it is up about 15% over the past 12 months.
While some analysts seem less concerned that competition from Disney+ will be a significant hit to Netflix's business, investors may still be uneasy with the entrance of a cheaper service with a huge library of time-tested content.
Disney+ subscriptions will give consumers access to exclusive content for $6.99 per month or $69.99 for a full year, compared to Netflix's standard plan offering of $13 per month, recently raised from $11.
Shares of Disney soared 9% Friday.
Disney+ and Netflix could certainly coexist in consumers' library of streaming services.
Disney CEO Bob Iger made clear that the new service is aimed at kids, saying that other offerings like sports and adult content are available on their other services like ESPN+ and Hulu.
"Bottom-line, Disney+ features family content, while NFLX offers a much broader range of content with the majority of the most-searched content on the platform."
analysts from SunTrust wrote in a note Friday.
"As such, we do not view Disney+ as a strong alternative to NFLX."
The analysts added that in a recent survey conducted by the firm, only 8% of existing Netflix subscribers who responded expect to churn to Disney+, while 59% expected to continue to subscribe only to Netflix.
Twenty-four percent of respondents expected to subscribe to both services, according to the survey.
Disney+ could actually be a positive for Netflix, the analysts wrote, since the entrance of a new streaming player could further "accelerate cord-cutting."
Still, other analysts see a significant threat in Disney's offering.
Mark Mahaney of RBC Capital Markets told CNBC Friday that Disney has a "major advantage" over Netflix because it does not need to spend much to build up its already-full content library.
"There is going to be pressure here on Netflix to continue to differentiate their service with more and more original content spend, that's the major advantage ... that Disney has they've got a back catalog," Mahaney said.
Still, Mahaney said he still believes consumers will be willing to sign up for both services if they're both robust.
"We did our survey work here, we think the vast majority of consumers are perfectly willing to sign up for more than one service," Mahaney said.
-CNBC's Eustance Huang contributed to this report.
Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.
Watch: Disney's Bob Iger: I believe Disney+ is going to be successful
Disney Chief Executive Officer Bob Iger believes that the media industry is at a turning point as novel technologies and consumer preferences demand even more from those in the entertainment business.
In an interview with CNBC's David Faber, the longtime CEO said that while the company will always be tied to quality storytelling, the launch of its new direct-to-consumer service Disney+ reveals just how much the media landscape is evolving.
"It's changing so much, the marketplace has never been this dynamic, meaning speed of change is much faster," Iger said in the interview that aired Friday on CNBC.
"And that's technology, that's consumer behavior driven by technology.
It's economics, it's how things are marketed anywhere you look."
Iger's comments came shortly after he and other Disney top brass unveiled at the company's investor day its streaming service, Disney+.
The platform, which will be available starting Nov. 12, will offer customers an enormous amount of Disney media from Day One.
Feature films from Pixar, Lucasfilms, Marvel Studios will accompany new, original content on the platform and will be available for download so that films and shows can be viewed offline.
Iger also told analysts on Thursday he plans to step down when his contract ends in 2021.
The hotly anticipated Disney+ likely marks a key moment in the industry's pivot toward a streaming-dominant platform as more and more customers flock to direct options like Netflix, Hulu and Amazon Prime Video.
Iger added that while Disney may not have been the first player in the streaming space, it is important that the company continue to modernize to not fall behind both in storytelling and in how that storytelling is delivered.
"I think one of the reasons why companies fail to innovate is, they continue to measure it against today," Iger said.
"It becomes very, very difficult to innovate again, because you just you're you're so tied to the business model that got you where you are, which could be great."
"But it often causes companies to not think about: what is that business model going to look like tomorrow?"
he added.
Disclosure: Comcast, which owns CNBC parent NBCUniversal, is a co-owner of Hulu.
For Disney, the price is the story.
Disney announced pricing for its new streaming service on Thursday, and it's surprisingly low: $6.99 per month and $69.99 annually (or $5.83 per month).
The service won't include any advertisements.
That's the headline from Disney's big launch of its new entertainment streaming service, Disney+, which goes live to the world on Nov. 12.
That's a lot cheaper than Netflix, which announced earlier this year it was raising prices on its standard plan from $11 to $13 per month.
Disney CEO Bob Iger has already said Disney+ is the company's top priority.
At the company's investor day on Thursday, Disney clarified that vision: Disney+ is kids' content.
Think about what isn't included in Disney+.
There are no sports.
That's for ESPN and ESPN+.
There's no news or prime-time television from ABC.
Other than National Geographic, the content is pretty straightforward.
It's for young people.
(OK, and some "Star Wars" movies and "Simpsons" episodes for Gen X parents who want to watch with or without their kids).
"If consumers want sports, they can subscribe to ESPN+.
If they want adult content, they can subscribe to Hulu, and if they want family, there's Disney(+)," Iger said.
Disney+ will immediately include 18 of Pixar's 21 movies, most Marvel films, 30 seasons of "Simpsons" episodes (thanks to the Fox acquisition!
), the Disney movie back catalog ("Bambi," "Snow White," "Lion King," etc.
), recent Disney movies ("Moana," "Frozen," etc.
), 5,000 episodes of Disney Channel shows and 100 Disney Channel original movies, and a lot more.
Disney is building Disney+ to be the premium streaming option for kids and families.
And it probably already is.
While Netflix has spent heavily on kids programming, investing in its own animation division, its TV and movie options for kids are rather weak.
Viacom's Nickelodeon and Disney have dominated kids shows for years.
Netflix also doesn't own rights to a lot of popular PBS kids programming, like "Sesame Street" and "Daniel Tiger."
Amazon Prime Video has a decent array of children's show but can't compete with Disney's original slate, built up over decades.
And Disney's new movies, including films like "Frozen 2" and the "Lion King" live-action remake, will become a part of Disney+ about seven to nine months after they hit theaters.
For $6 or $7 per month, Disney+ is an immediately appealing option for families looking for affordable content.
The aggressive underpricing of Netflix is no accident.
Disney is banking on getting 60 million to 90 million Disney+ subscribers by 2024.
Iger said the pricing was purposefully set to appeal to as many people as possible.
"We're designing a product that we want to be accessible to as many consumers as possible," Iger said during the investor day presentation.
"We just feel that Disney is loved by so many millions and millions of people around the world."
There are many streaming products now.
Probably too many.
But Disney+ may have instantly become the most appealing from a price-to-value standpoint.
Disclosure: Comcast, which owns CNBC parent NBCUniversal, is a co-owner of Hulu.
Why contactless cards haven't caught on in the U.S. 6:05 PM ET Wed, 10 April 2019 | 03:03 For many foreign tourists visiting the U.S., checking out at the register feels like a trip back in time.
Inserting cards, entering pin codes and signing receipts are a thing of the past in countries that have embraced contactless payments.
The world's biggest economy, however, is just starting to catch on to the trend.
An estimated 3% of cards in force in the U.S. are contactless, according to a study published in 2018 by consultancy A.T. Kearney.
That compares with roughly 64% in the U.K. and as high as 96% in South Korea.
Contactless technology allows customers to pay by tapping their cards directly onto a store's checkout terminal if it includes the contactless symbol, which resembles a wifi logo turned on its side.
The cards are a faster alternative to chip and pin payments, similar to "tap and go" transactions through digital wallets like Apple Pay.
Competition in the video streaming sector is heating up, with Disney unveiling Thursday its plans to enter the space but one analyst said the entertainment giant has a "major advantage" over the likes of incumbents like Netflix.
"It's called back catalog," said Mark Mahaney, lead technology analyst at RBC Capital Markets, referring to past content the company may have previously produced.
To illustrate his point, Mahaney cited Disney's expenditure plans of "spending a billion dollars on original content each year."
In comparison, "Netflix is going to be spending seven or eight times that much," he told CNBC's "Street Signs" on Friday.
That's because Netflix lacks a portfolio of content, leaving the company in the position of needing to rent content that could be gone if its partners decide to end their relationship, Mahaney said.
One such instance was in 2017, when Disney announced its intention to remove its movies from Netflix to develop its own streaming service instead.
In fact, licensed content on Netflix has done better, compared to the viewership that its original shows have attracted, said a Variety report in December that cited data from 7Park Data a company tracking on-demand video consumption on streaming giants Netflix, Hulu and Amazon.
Tesla on Thursday started leasing out its Model 3 sedan in the United States, in a financing option that would increase the electric car maker's customer base.
Tesla said its customers in the United States would be able to lease any Model 3 variant for a small down payment and monthly payments thereafter, but they will not have the option to buy the car at the end of the lease.
Tesla said that it would begin bundling its autopilot software as a standard feature on all cars, raising the base price, and would drop the entry-level Model 3 Standard from online ordering.
As a result, the lowest-priced Model 3 available for order on its online menu in the United States is now the $39,500 Standard Plus, which includes Autopilot.
The company in February had rolled out its long-awaited $35,000 version of the car with great fanfare.
The company also said the Standard variant of Model 3 will now be a software-limited version of the Standard Plus, to simplify production.
As part of the changes to its online ordering, Tesla said the Model 3 Standard variant and the Model 3 Long Range Rear-Wheel Drive will be taken off the online ordering menu but will still be available for order by phone or in stores.
Disney Chairman and CEO Bob Iger explained to CNBC's David Faber that he believes customers will flock to the company's new streaming service, Disney+, thanks to a unique combination of factors.
"I'm pretty optimistic about the ability for this thing to work.
Particularly when you make it accessible because of the content we're putting on, because of the user interface and because of the price," Iger said.
"If, in five years' time, I prove to be wrong or we prove to be wrong we're still making great content that's going to be in great demand globally."
"And you can shift in a moment and license to third parties," he added.
"But I don't think that's really an issue.
You're building up library value regardless."
Disney announced Thursday that its streaming service will be available starting on Nov. 12.The new service will allow customers unlimited downloads so that content can be viewed offline.
Iger also told analysts on Thursday that he would be stepping down in 2021 when his contract ends.
Disney+ also represents a big bet by the media giant that it can both terminate its profitable licensing relationship with Netflix and eventually compete with the entrenched rival.
It acquired assets from 21st Century Fox for $71 billion to shore up its content trove, including National Geographic and the Fox movie studio.
The Fox assets joined a host of heavyweight entertainment assets like Marvel Studios and Lucasfilm, producer of the "Star Wars" empire.
All of the company's 2019 films will be available on Disney+ when their theatrical and home entertainment windows have end.
The company added that it will continue to release major motion pictures to theaters prior to their appearance on the streaming service.
Disney+ is expected to mark a critical moment in the fierce streaming wars between the likes of Netflix, Hulu and Amazon Prime Video.
Disney Chairman and CEO Bob Iger told CNBC's David Faber on Thursday that the company's new streaming platform has an edge over rival streaming service Netflix.
"While I think Netflix has done a good job of creating brand value, and name value, and a product that I think is considered of great value to a lot of people, they're still building their brand in many respects," Iger said.
"Whereas in our case, we start with a customer relationship that, in many respects is visceral."
"We're pricing this to be accessible to the millions and millions if not hundreds of millions of Disney fans, and Marvel fans, and Pixar fans, and 'Star Wars' fans that are out there," he added.
"The sheer number of people worldwide that know our brands, that interact with our brands on a daily basis, that spend money on our brands is huge.
And no other company has that."
Disney announced Thursday at the company's investor day that Disney+ will be available starting on November 12 for $6.99 per month or $69.99 per year.
The new service will allow customers unlimited downloads so that content can be viewed offline.
Iger also told analysts on Thursday that he would be stepping down in 2021 when his contract ends.
The importance of Disney+ is difficult to understate both for Disney as a leading media empire as well as for Iger himself, who's postponed his retirement to see the project through.
Iger, who's served as the company's chief executive since 2005, first announced in summer 2017 that Disney would introduce its own online streaming service.
Though the decision will allow Disney to better take advantage of its extensive media hoard, it's also forced the company to make a huge bet that it can both terminate its profitable licensing relationship with Netflix and eventually compete with entrenched rivals.
Disney CEO Bob Iger said that he is definitely stepping down from his post at the company in 2021.
"I'm expecting my contract to expire at the end of 2021," Iger said Thursday during Disney's investor day presentations.
"And I was going to say 'and this time I mean it,' but I've said it before.
I've been CEO since October of 2005 and as I've said many times, there's a time for everything and 2021 will be the time for me to finally step down."
Iger has extended his contract with Disney twice during his tenure.
Once in 2018 and then through 2021, but it was contingent on the Fox deal closing.
Since that merger has wrapped up, Iger will remain with the company as the head executive for the next two years.
"I've been engaged with the board for quite some time and there's discussion about a succession and they've been engaged in a succession process," Iger said.
"And we continue to feel that they will be able to identify my successor on a timely enough basis so this company has smooth transition."
Iger has been instrumental in many of Disney's acquisitions, including Pixar in 2006, Marvel in 2009 and Lucasfilm in 2012.
He has also pushed for the launch of Disney+, a streaming service filled with original movies and television shows as well as Disney's slate of classic animated and live-action content.
There were rumors last month that Disney's internal restructuring was setting up two top executives as potential successors to Iger.
Kevin Mayer, 55, the company's head of strategy, was named chairman of a new direct-to-consumer and international segment.
And Robert Chapek, 58, head of parks, added consumer products to his oversight.
Former consumer products head James Pitaro, 48, was named as the head of ESPN, but is considered a long shot for the role of CEO.
Disney said Thursday it will roll out its much anticipated Disney+ video streaming service on November 12, drawing on its deep catalog of content and offering up new shows featuring favorite characters from "Monsters Inc." to Marvel to "Star Wars."
The service will cost subscribers $6.99 per month, or $69.99 per year, which is at the high end of what many analysts had expected.
"Today's presentation will show you where we're going, but also remind you that we are starting from a position of strength and optimism," CEO Bob Iger said during the company's investor day Thursday.
Analysts had expected the service would cost $5 to $7 per month, which is around half of what Netflix costs for its standard HD plan.
Disney had signaled that it intended for the platform to be much cheaper than its rival.
Disney said it expects it will spend about $1 billion in 2020 on original content for the platform and $2 billion by 2024.
The company is also forecasting it will have between 60 million and 90 million subscribers by the end of 2024.
One-third of those subscribers will be domestic and two-thirds will be international, the company said.
Analysts and investors will be keen to see if the revenue from subscribers will be able to outweigh the lost revenue from no longer licensing its content to third parties.
Disney+ will debut in the United States, but the company said it "plans to be in nearly all major regions of the world within the next two years."
Disney had also hinted that it is interested in bundling it with ESPN+ and Hulu, which it owns a 60% stake in.
However, it's unclear if Disney+ will coexist with these other services, particularly considering 40% of Hulu is owned by Comcast (30%) and AT&T (10%).
Here's what the Disney+ interface looks like on television screens: Disney said ahead of the meeting that it would not be commenting on the recently completed quarter or the current quarter.
The company is due to report second quarter results on May 8 after the closing bell.
So far, Disney has already confirmed a number of television series and films solely available on Disney+.
For its Marvel brand, Disney will have four different live-action series featuring Scarlet Witch and Vision, Loki, Bucky Barnes (the Winter Soldier) and Sam Wilson (Falcon) and Hawkeye.
Head of Marvel Kevin Feige said the Marvel series will connect directly to the cinematic universe and to each other.
An animated series called "What If" will also be available on Disney+.
It will explore hypothetical questions like: what would have happened if Peggy Carter had been given the super serum instead of Steve Rogers?
Additionally, there will be two unscripted Marvel series.
From Star Wars, head of Lucasfilm Kathleen Kennedy said "The Mandalorian" series would be available to fans at the launch of Disney+.
Also in the works is a new season of "Star Wars Clone Wars" and a live-action show based on Cassian Andor and K2-SO from "Rogue One: A Star Wars Story."
Pixar will produce a number of shorts for the subscription service, featuring characters like Forky and Bo Peep from the "Toy Story" films.
It will also have a series based in the world of "Monster's Inc." called "Monsters at Work."
"One of the things I am most excited about is that we have the unique opportunity to extend our stories with characters our audiences know and love as well as explore new types of storytelling and animation with emerging filmmakers and show it all exclusively on Disney+," Jennifer Lee, chief creative officer of Walt Disney Animation Studios, said.
Additional originals on the platform will include a "High School Musical" series and a live-action film remake of "Lady and the Tramp."
Disney+ will also be home to "Noelle," a Christmas film starring Anna Kendrick as the daughter of Santa Claus.
It is set to arrive on the platform soon after launch.
Also on the service will be a catalog of Disney's classic animated features and TV shows as well as live-action flicks and shows, including fan favorites like "Lizzie McGuire" and "Hannah Montana."
National Geographic content will also find a home on Disney+, including a show called "The World According to Jeff Goldblum" and "Magic of the Animal Kingdom," an inside look at what goes on behind the scenes at that the veterinary offices at Disney theme parks Epcot and Animal Kingdom in Orlando, Florida.
Additionally, Agnes Chu, senior vice president of content for Disney+, said all episodes of "The Simpsons" will appear on the services on day one.
Other 20th Century Fox titles on Disney+ will include "The Sound of Music," "The Princess Bride" and "Malcolm in the Middle."
All films released in 2019 will also be available on Disney+ as soon as their theatrical and home entertainment windows have closed.
"Frozen II" will also be available exclusively on the platform by the summer of 2020.
The company said it will continue to release major motion pictures to theaters ahead of their appearance on the streaming service.
Since 2006, Disney has released 44 films that have grossed more than $37 billion at the box office.
The company also said that all content will be downloadable so that it can be watched offline.
"If we keep creating debris in space, eventually we are going to get to the point where it's very difficult to find a place to launch, very difficult to find a place to put a satellite, to operate a satellite without having to maneuver it all the time to keep it away from debris.
All of those things are complicated and have to be worked in an international perspective," he added.
Hyten's comments come on the heels of India's successful anti-satellite missile test which created more than 250 pieces of space junk, according to U.S. Strategic Command assessments.
Last month India shot down a satellite with an anti-satellite missile, joining an exclusive group of world powers with military space capabilities.
Read more: India joined an exclusive club with its latest anti-satellite missile test here's what it means for the world While anti-satellite missiles are by no means new, only a few countries have been able to develop, test and prove the capability.
Satellites make up the backbone of GPS, communications, intelligence and more making the ability to destroy spacecraft a coveted military strength.
In the wake of the test, dubbed "Mission Shakti," India said that if debris was created from the event it would not pose a threat to space-based assets.
"The test was done in the lower atmosphere to ensure that there is no space debris.
Whatever debris that is generated will decay and fall back onto the earth within weeks," Shambhu Hakki, a spokesperson for the Indian Embassy in Washington, wrote in an email.
Although India's weapons test was conducted at the relatively low orbit of 300 km, the debris may "pose a threat" to anything in higher orbits, Jonathan McDowell, an astrophysicist at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center, told CNBC in a prior interview.
The test's altitude is just below the orbit of the International Space Station, which circles the Earth at about 400 km up.
A recently unclassified report from the National Air and Space Intelligence Center, or NASIC, explained how China conducted an anti-satellite test in 2007 that produced a great deal of space junk.
At an altitude of about 800 km, China destroyed one of its own weather satellites with an anti-satellite missile.
Although the test was successful, the satellite shattered into thousands of pieces, which continue to zip around in an orbital cloud of deadly debris.
"A huge percentage of the debris in low Earth orbit is still attributable to that one test," Frank Slazer, vice president of space systems at Aerospace Industries Association, told CNBC earlier this year.
However, the test represents an unsettling trend for governments and corporations operating in space, as risk increases that valuable assets "could be third-party victims" of nations demonstrating military capabilities in space.
"The more tests like this happen then the more risk there is that there could be impacts on either [rockets] going to space or satellites in low Earth orbit," Slazer said.
Meanwhile, India's Hakki also maintained that the country is against the weaponization of outer space and "has no intention of entering into an arms race in outer space."
The latest revelations from India, however, come as the United States, China and Russia sprint to equip their arsenals with anti-satellite missiles.
In October, CNBC learned that a never-before-seen missile photographed on a Russian MiG-31 interceptor is believed to be a mock-up of an anti-satellite weapon that will be ready for warfare by 2022.
The Russian anti-satellite weapon, which is attached to a space launch vehicle, is expected to target communication and imagery satellites in low Earth orbit, according to one source, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
For reference, the International Space Station and the Hubble Space Telescope travel in low Earth orbit.
Images of the mysterious missile on a modified MiG-31, a supersonic near-space interceptor, appeared in mid-September.
SpaceX launched the company's Falcon Heavy rocket on its inaugural commercial mission on Thursday evening.
This was the second flight for Falcon Heavy, which became the most powerful rocket in use in the world after SpaceX's successful test flight in February 2018.
That launch was purely demonstration Thursday represents the first revenue-generating flight of Falcon Heavy.
Falcon Heavy launched from SpaceX's launchpad at NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Florida.
Built out of three of the company's Falcon 9 rockets, Falcon Heavy's three cores stand side by side to create a 27-engine colossus.
Together, those engines create about 5.1 million pounds of thrust.
A few minutes after liftoff, the three lower "booster" stages of the rocket separated, flipped and return to Earth.
The side boosters on each side of the rocket returned to SpaceX's concrete pads on the Florida coastline and the larger center booster went to the company's autonomous barge in the Atlantic Ocean.
During the demonstration flight the center booster ran out of fuel and crashed in the water.
But, for Thursday's flight, all three boosters landed successfully.
Six years after making what at the time was its largest venture investment ever, Google's $258 million bet on Uber has multiplied by about 20-fold to be worth more than $5 billion.
According to Uber's IPO prospectus filed on Thursday, Google parent Alphabet owns a 5.2 percent stake in the ride-sharing company.
With Uber reportedly looking to go public at a $100 billion valuation, Alphabet's shares are worth about $5.2 billion, though that number could fluctuate wildly between now and the lock-up expiration six months after the IPO.
Alphabet is emerging as one of the big winners in the ride-hailing boom, even though the company is viewed as a potential competitor in the space once self-driving cars hit the market.
Alphabet also invested $500 million in Uber arch-rival Lyft through its late-stage investment arm, CapitalG, in October 2017.
Its 5.3 percent stake in Lyft is worth $783 million as of Thursday's close.
Alphabet is also locked into those shares until 180 days after last month's IPO.
While Alphabet is turning a handsome profit from its Uber investment, the two companies are hardly allies.
David Drummond, Alphabet's senior vice president of corporate development and chief legal officer, had an Uber board seat until 2016, when he left because of growing competition in self-driving technology.
The following year Alphabet sued Uber, claiming the ride-sharing company had stolen trade secrets when it acquired a self-driving technology start-up built by former Google executive Anthony Levandowski.
The case was settled last February, and Uber agreed to pay Waymo a 0.34 percent equity stake, which at the time amounted to about $245 million.
Those shares account for about 7 percent of Alphabet's current stake in Uber.
There's also a big business relationship between the companies.
From the beginning of 2016 through 2018, Uber paid Google $58 million for map services as well as $631 million for marketing and advertising services and $70 million for technology infrastructure and enterprise services.
WATCH: Uber files to IPO on the NYSE
In a financial filing from Uber today, the company named competitors to its myriad business, ranging from startups like Zoox and DoorDash, to tech titans like Apple, Alphabet and Amazon.
Uber named the following direct competitors... Ride-hailing companies: Lyft, Ola, Careem, Didi, Taxify and Yandex.Taxi Personal mobility businesses: Motivate (owned by Lyft), Lime, Bird and Skip Food delivery businesses: GrubHub, DoorDash, Deliveroo, Swiggy, Postmates, Zomato, Delivery Hero, Just Eat, Takeaway.com and Amazon.
Freight: C.H.
Robinson, Total Quality Logistics, XPO Logistics, Convoy, Echo Global Logistics, Coyote, Transfix, DHL and NEXT Trucking.
Driverless vehicle firms: Alphabet's Waymo, GM's Cruise Automation, Tesla, Apple, Zoox, Aptiv, May Mobility, Pronto.ai, Aurora and Nuro "Waymo has already introduced a commercialized ridehailing fleet of autonomous vehicles, and it is possible that our other competitors could introduce autonomous vehicle offerings earlier than we will," the company wrote in the Risk Factors section of its S-1 filing.
Driverless vehicles are important to Uber, in part, because its "business would be adversely affected if drivers were classified as employees instead of independent contractors," it disclosed in the same filing.
And it's consistently challenging for Uber to keep drivers loyal to its platform.
Uber also spoke plainly about its losses to date and warned investors that it expects operating costs to increase and that it may not achieve profitability.
As of Dec. 31, 2018, Uber had racked up an accumulated deficit of $7.9 billion.
The company also alluded to the wave of scandals and negative press coverage in 2017 that eventually led to the ouster of former CEO Travis Kalanick: In 2017, the #DeleteUber campaign prompted hundreds of thousands of consumers to stop using our platform within days.
Subsequently, our reputation was further harmed when an employee published a blog post alleging, among other things, that we had a toxic culture and that certain sexual harassment and discriminatory practices occurred in our workplace.
Shortly thereafter, we had a number of highly publicized events and allegations, including investigations related to a software tool allegedly designed to evade and deceive authorities, a high-profile lawsuit filed against us by Waymo, and our disclosure of a data security breach.
Elsewhere in the filing, Uber notes: "We are on a new path forward with the hiring of our Chief Executive Officer Dara Khosrowshahi in September 2017 following many challenges regarding our culture, workplace practices, and reputation."
Uber's risk factors comprised 48 pages of its 285-page prospectus for investors weighing the company's potential ahead of its IPO, which is expected later this year.
Archrival Lyft's risk factors comprised 42 pages of a 220-page prospectus.
Lyft expressed similar concerns in its S-1 filing around its quest to achieve profitability, ability to attract and retain drivers, especially.
Lyft named the following direct competitors... Ride-hailing Uber, Gett (Juno) and Via, along with traditional taxi and livery companies, as well as automakers, including BMW, that have gotten into transportation services Personal mobility JUMP (owned by Uber), Lime and Bird, Driverless vehicles Alphabet's Waymo unit, Apple, Baidu, Uber and Zoox However, Lyft's business is more limited in scope than Uber's.
Lyft is only operating in North America today, and it is primarily concerned with moving people, not food and freight.
Google is noted as a key supplier of mapping technology to Uber in the ride-sharing company's IPO filing, which became available on Thursday.
"We rely upon certain third parties to provide software for our products and offerings, including Google Maps for the mapping function that is critical to the functionality of our platform," Uber said in the filing.
Google Maps technology appears when a person enters a destination in the Uber app; the technology shows the current place, the destination and a route, along with estimates of arrival times.
Uber said that it entered into an agreement with Google around map services in October 2015.
"From January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2018, we have paid Google an aggregate of approximately $58 million pursuant to this agreement," Uber said.
Shortly after the agreement was signed, Uber hired Manik Gupta, then the director of product management for Google Maps; Gupta is now Uber's chief product officer.
In 2015 Uber acquired mapping start-up deCarta for an undisclosed sum.
The start-up's CEO, J. Kim Fennell, today is Uber's head of product partnerships and U.S. and Canada business development; he is the person who signed two contracts with Google for mapping technology on behalf of Uber.
It looks like the deal will continue for some period of time, as Uber does not see a viable alternative.
It wrote: "We do not believe that an alternative mapping solution exists that can provide the global functionality that we require to offer our platform in all of the markets in which we operate.
We do not control all mapping functions employed by our platform or Drivers using our platform, and it is possible that such mapping functions may not be reliable."
Uber also said between the beginning of 2016 and the end of 2018 it paid Alphabet's affiliates around $631 million for marketing and advertising services.
Additionally, Uber uses Google's public cloud in addition to Amazon Web Services, an Uber spokesperson said.
The two companies have a tangled history.
In 2013, Google invested more than $250 million in Uber through its early-stage venture arm, GV, formerly known as Google Ventures.
Alphabet still owns more than 5% of Uber's outstanding shares through that investment, according to the S-1.
Google executive David Drummond took a seat on Uber's board at the time.
But the two companies gradually started to compete in various areas, including self-driving technology, and Drummond left the board in 2016.
Then Alphabet sued Uber in 2017, claiming that Uber had stolen trade secrets when it acquired a self-driving technology start-up built by another former Google exec, Anthony Levandowski.
The case was settled last February, and Uber agreed to pay Waymo a 0.34 percent equity stake, which at the time amounted to about $245 million.
Alphabet took a stake in Uber arch-rival Lyft as the lawsuit with Uber was still going on, and owned more than 5% of that company when it went public lat month.
WATCH: Uber CEO: We're focusing on what we can control within our business
Uber co-founder Travis Kalanick, who was booted almost two years ago from the ride-hailing business he built into a global behemoth, still owns 8.6 percent of the company, a stake that could be worth close to $9 billion.
Kalanick owns 117.5 million shares of Uber, making him the third-biggest stakeholder, behind SoftBank and Benchmark, according to the company's IPO prospectus filed Thursday.
With the company poised to debut at a valuation that could reach $100 billion, Kalanick is set to become one of the world's 200 richest people.
It's been a rocky road to riches for Kalanick, who was celebrated in Silicon Valley for helping start Uber in 2009 and for pioneering a new industry that aimed to modernize the taxi experience for the smartphone era.
Kalanick raised billions of dollars for Uber from some of the most notable tech investors to expand the business across the globe and build out a complicated infrastructure that also put the company squarely in the food delivery and shipping markets.
But a host of controversies involving the company's culture, its treatment of drivers, and its failure to investigate and disclose abuse claims from riders, as well a high-profile legal fight with Alphabet over self-driving car technology, eventually left Kalanick in conflict with his board and top shareholders.
Partners at top backer Benchmark demanded his resignation in 2017.
While Kalanick is still on the board, he's left any functional role at the company and is now running a venture fund he started called 10100 (ten one hundred).
Kalanick, like other insiders, will have to wait six months before he can turn that paper profit into real money because of the post-IPO lockup period.
The market could swing wildly during that period for any number of reasons.
Rival Lyft is trading well below its $72 initial public offering price from last month, leaving some insiders on edge.
But Kalanick has already realized some of his gains after selling $1.4 billion worth of stock to SoftBank in early 2018.
That transaction was part of a larger deal that made SoftBank the company's biggest shareholder with 16 percent ownership, followed by Benchmark at 11 percent.
WATCH: Here's how Uber compares to Lyft
Uber released its long-awaited IPO prospectus.
The company will list on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "UBER."
The company has self-reported unaudited financials for several quarters one of the few tech giants expected to debut this year to do so.
That means the public S-1 serves less as the typical first look into financials and acts more as a contextualized official record.
The filing comes about two weeks after rival Lyft debuted on the public markets.
The two ride-hailing companies had been racing toward the public markets practically in tandem, though Uber's offering is likely to be significantly larger, and one of the largest offerings this year.
The company was previously reported to be seeking a valuation of up to $120 billion.
Uber is expected to provide a price range for its shares later this month and go public in May.
Below are the highlights from Uber's filing.
A small lunar lander crashed into the surface of the moon on Thursday, coming just short of the venture's goal.
Israeli nonprofit SpaceIL was aiming to become the first private entity to softly land a spacecraft on the moon's surface a feat previously achieved by only three governments in history.
SpaceIL confirmed that its robotic "Beresheet" spacecraft was not successful.
"We have a failure of the spacecraft.
We unfortunately have not managed to land successfully," Opher Doron, general manager of the Israel Aerospace Industries space program, said on the SpaceIL's livestream of the landing attempt.
"If at first you don't succeed, try again," Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said after the crash.
He added the prediction that Israel will be successful in two or three years, as "an Israeli spacecraft will land on the moon, whole."
Beresheet is the Hebrew word for genesis, literally translating as "in the beginning."
The spacecraft traveled for about 4 million miles before reaching the moon.
The SpaceIL team showed an image of the spacecraft, taken at about 22 kilometers above the lunar surface as Beresheet began its final approach.
"We are the seventh country to orbit the moon and the fourth to reach the moon's surface," Doron said.
"It's a tremendous achievement up to now."
The only other countries to reach the lunar surface before Israel are the United States, Russia and China.
No private entity has safely landed a spacecraft on the moon.
Messages of condolence and congratulations poured in from around the world, as many still hailed the mission as a success for its ambition and accomplishments along the way.
"While NASA regrets the end of the TeamSpaceIL mission without a successful lunar landing, we congratulate SpaceIL, Israel Aerospace Industries and the state of Israel on the accomplishment of sending the first privately funded mission into lunar orbit," NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine said in a tweet.
At a cost of about $100 million, the low-budget lander was backed by private donors, with state-owned Israel Aerospace Industries involved as a partner.
SpaceIL president and billionaire entrepreneur Morris Kahn personally donated $40 million of the project's costs.
While the mission's cost was higher than previously expected, Beresheet's mission came at a fraction of the multibillion-dollar costs of previous government projects.
The SpaceIL project was initially a competitor in the Google Lunar Xprize but that race ended last March with no winners.
Although Google withdrew its $20 million prize, the Xprize Foundation had said it would give SpaceIL a $1 million award for the successful lunar landing.
The Xprize founder, Peter Diamandis, said his organization would still award the SpaceIL team the $1 million so the team can "continue their work and pursue Beresheet 2.0."
SpaceX launched Beresheet as a secondary payload on a Falcon 9 rocket in February.
The spacecraft traveled for nearly seven weeks before reaching the moon.
- CNBC's Jason Gewirtz contributed to this report.
Software company PagerDuty went public at the New York Stock exchange on Thursday sending its stock soaring more than 50%, only to be overshadowed by the company's trusty mascot, Pagey.
PagerDuty is a software company that helps technical teams quickly spot problems and respond to incidents such as customer complaints.
Pagey, inspired by the old-fashioned pager, was born in 2013, four years after the birth of PagerDuty.
He was born into to a large family of Dutonians, people who work at PagerDuty, who missed pagers and wanted one they could call on their own, according to the company.
EBay's shares slid to $36.00 on Thursday afternoon.
Its market cap was $32.94 billion.
Bezos cited the Fulfillment by Amazon and Prime memberships as the company's two "very best selling tools" to secure Amazon's success with third-party sellers over rivals such as eBay.
"We invested in both of these programs at significant financial risk and after much internal debate," Bezos said in the letter.
"We could not foresee with certainty what those programs would eventually look like, let alone whether they would succeed, but they were pushed forward with intuition and heart, and nourished with optimism."
In response, eBay CEO Devin Wenig took to Twitter to defend the company.
"While I appreciate the ink dedicated to @ ebay from the ceo of the company not focused on competition, think I"ll dedicate my letter to customers, purpose and strategy.
We don't compete with our sellers.
We don't bundle endless services to create barriers to competition."
Bezos also challenged rival retailers to match Amazon's minimum wage of $15 per hour.
Bezos did not call out competitors by name, but it prompted a response from Walmart's executive vice president of corporate affairs, Dan Bartlett, who challenged Amazon to pay more taxes.
Read Bezos' 2018 annual letter here.
The indictment describes a relationship that ran from January to May 2010.
During that time, Chelsea Manning, an Army intelligence analyst then known as Bradley Manning, sent "nearly complete" databases from U.S. government agencies to Wikileaks at Assange's request.
The data included 90,000 Afghan war reports, 400,000 Iraq war reports, 800 assessment briefs of prisoners at Guantanamo Bay and 250,000 diplomatic cables.
Assange also allegedly provided support to Manning, and encouraged her to keep leaking terabytes of information even after she said she couldn't access any more.
Assange is alleged to have helped Manning break a password associated with the U.S. government's Secret Internet Protocol Network, encouraged Manning to provide various records and information from several different departments and helped Manning conceal her identity while doing it.
The indictment also outlines an alleged "password cracking agreement," in which Assange helped Manning find sensitive passwords and attempt to crack them, in order to give her greater access to classified information.
For this, Manning used a Linux-based software tool, the Justice Department alleges, though it's unclear where Manning obtained the software.
These are the basis of charges that Assange conspired to hack government computers and steal classified information.
Assange also allegedly pushed Manning for more information.
"After this upload, that's all I really have got left," Manning allegedly said in early 2010 after the initial leaks.
"Curious eyes never run dry in my experience," Assange replied, according to the indictment.
The army arrested Manning for the leaks in July 2010.
Wikileaks publicly released the data starting later that year.
Assange used the diplomatic cables to take U.S. government officials and media outlets on a months-long ride, involving promises of massive file dumps, allegedly damaging data held as "insurance," and various other teases throughout 2010.
The data dumps provided Wikileaks with significant media attention and caused diplomatic headaches and long-lasting repercussions in the relationships between the U.S. and its European allies.
Manning has said she leaked the information to Wikileaks because of grave concerns that media and government portrayals of success in Iraq and Afghanistan were a stark contrast to the starker, uglier reality she had been observing in her Army role.
At her sentencing in August 2013, she said, "When I made these decisions I believed I was going to help people, not hurt people.
At the time of my decisions I was dealing with a lot of issues."
She was sentenced to 35 years in prison.
Throughout her court martial, Manning was often described by her attorneys as "emotionally fragile," and she said she became involved with Wikileaks staffers because they sympathized with her personally and made her feel like she could "be myself."
Manning has so far fought a subpoena to testify in the case against Assange.
PagerDuty shares jumped 59% in their opening day of trading on Thursday in the first notable software IPO of 2019.
Shares traded at $38.25 a piece, leaving PagerDuty with a market capitalization of around $2.8 billion.
The stock had been priced at $24 Wednesday at a market cap of nearly $1.8 billion.
The rally, if it can be sustained, should offer some relief to technology investors following Lyft's post-IPO performance, especially with bigger companies like Zoom, Pinterest and Uber preparing to hit the public markets in the coming weeks.
Lyft debuted at $72 on March 29, but has stumbled since, closing on Wednesday at $60.12.
PagerDuty, whose software helps technical teams quickly spot problems with applications and respond to incidents such as customer complaints, is used by developers at over 11,000 companies, including Slack, Box, Gap and Netflix.
Revenue jumped 48 percent last year to $117.8 million, though the company's net loss widened to $40.7 million from $38.1 million a year earlier.
Its previous financing round was in September, when T. Rowe Price Group led a $90 million investment at a $1.3 billion valuation.
The so-called DevOps market is expected to reach $10.3 billion a year by 2023, up from $3.4 billion last year, according to research from MarketsandMarkets.
Ethan Kurzweil, a partner at Bessemer Venture Partners, one of PagerDuty's biggest investors, said that these sorts of developer tools are gaining importance as software becomes central to the way more companies do business.
"It's the practitioner that's making the decision to adopt, and then ultimately is the one that controls the purchasing decisions, as opposed to selling to a central IT gatekeeper," said Kurzweil, whose firm owned about 12 percent of PagerDuty prior to the offering.
"The next generation of cloud technology is being sold bottoms-up to the people using it."
PagerDuty was founded in 2009 by three former Amazon developers.
In 2016, the company hired industry veteran Jennifer Tejada as its CEO.
She owns about 6 percent of the company.
The biggest investors are Andreessen Horowitz at 18 percent before the offering, followed by Accel at 12 percent.
PagerDuty's competitors include Atlassian and Splunk, which have both acquired their way into the market.
WATCH: PagerDuty CEO on cloud computing, cybersecurity and diverse leadership
Can the Robinhood app live up to the legend?
2:12 PM ET Tue, 15 Jan 2019 | 09:02 Now, for $5 per month, eligible members have access to larger instant deposits and $1,000 of interest-free deposits for users who choose to invest with margin.
Additionally, Gold subscribers now have access to Nasdaq Level 2 market data and more than 1,500 exclusive research reports from analysts at Morningstar.
In a recent company blog post, Robinhood claimed that the new features are part of a "continued effort to help [users] make more informed investment decisions."
In December the company went after banks by offering checking and savings accounts with an interest rate that's roughly 30 times higher than the national average.
Customers earn 3 percent annually on money in either savings or checking accounts, paid out on a daily basis.
After entering the crowded trading arena six years ago, Robinhood quickly positioned itself in fintech with a revolutionary no-fee model catered to younger, less-experienced traders.
It now has more than 6 million users.
By sidelining commission fees, the company's bottom line relies on these premium paid subscriptions, in addition to order-flow payments, rebates from market makers and interest paid on margin accounts.
And for Gold members who choose to invest with margin, that interest is now only 5% annually on amounts borrowed above their first $1,000 in margin.
More from CNBC Disruptor 50: Lyft shares drop ahead of Uber IPO Pinterest sets IPO pricing For investors interested in trading traditional stocks, ETFs and even cryptocurrency, Robinhood has not only kept cost low but done so in a big way claiming to have saved its users more than $1 billion in fees as of early 2018.
And that's also paid dividends for a company that's eyeing a clear plan to go public in 2019.
CNBC reported that the stock-trading unicorn closed a $363 million Series D funding round last May, valuing them at $5.6 billion quadruple from the year prior.
Like many tech companies going public this year, Robinhood is still losing money.
And if profitability hasn't proved to be enough of a challenge, Securities Investor Protection Corp. expressed "serious concerns" about covering the insured checking and savings accounts the company announced it would be offering this past December.
"We plan to work closely with regulators as we prepare to launch our cash-management program, and we're revamping our marketing materials, including the name," Robinhood said in a December blog post from the company.
But between their new premium trading features and last month's acquisition of financial media company MarketSnacks, the company continues to diversify its value propositions in preparation for a likely IPO in 2019.
Though Robinhood co-CEO Bhatt has confirmed plans for their public debut, an exact date has not yet been revealed.
Robinhood has been named to the CNBC Disruptor 50 list for the past two years, ranking 38th in 2018.
The 2019 CNBC Disruptor 50 list will be revealed in May.
Amazon and Walmart are in war over worker pay and now corporate taxes.
After Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos on Thursday issued a challenge to other retailers, not naming which ones specifically, to match Amazon's pay and benefits, Walmart has responded, albeit quietly.
"Today I challenge our top retail competitors (you know who you are!)
to match our employee benefits and our $15 minimum wage.
Do it!
Better yet, go to $16 and throw the gauntlet back at us.
It's a kind of competition that will benefit everyone," Bezos wrote in his annual letter to shareholders.
Walmart's executive vice president of corporate affairs, Dan Bartlett, then shared an article Thursday morning on Twitter about Amazon paying $0 in federal taxes on more than $11 billion in profits last year.
He wrote: "Hey retail competitors out there (you know who you are) how about paying your taxes?"
The CEO of eBay, Devin Wenig, also snapped back at Amazon on Thursday, writing on Twitter: "I'll dedicate my [shareholders] letter to customers, purpose and strategy."
A spokesperson for Amazon said in a statement to CNBC: Amazon pays all the taxes we are required to pay in the U.S. and every country where we operate, including paying $2.6 billion in corporate tax and reporting $3.4 billion in tax expense over the last three years.
Corporate tax is based on profits, not revenues, and our profits remain modest given retail is a highly competitive, low-margin business and our continued heavy investment.
We have invested more than $160 billion in the U.S. since 2011, building a network of more than 125 fulfillment and sortation centers, air hubs and delivery stations as well as cloud-computing infrastructure and wind and solar farms.
We invest heavily in research and development at our Seattle headquarters and 18 tech hubs across the country.
We are creating tens of thousands of quality jobs each year with industry-leading pay for people of all skill levels, bringing our total workforce in the U.S. to more than 250,000.
Watch: How Amazon paid no federal income tax in 2018
Samsung said Thursday that people who sign up to learn more about its new foldable phone on Friday will be able to order it next week, ahead of the April 26 release date.
Those who sign up on Samsung.com for information about the Galaxy Fold on Friday are eligible to preorder it on Monday, the company said.
It's the best bet for people to get the next-generation phone on release day.
Disney CEO Bob Iger delivered a scalding rebuke of social media at a dinner at the Simon Wiesenthal Center, where he was honored with its 2019 Humanitarian Award.
"Hitler would have loved social media," Iger said at Wednesday's event, according to Variety.
"It's the most powerful marketing tool an extremist could ever hope for because by design social media reflects a narrow world view filtering out anything that challenges our beliefs while constantly validating our convictions and amplifying our deepest fears."
Cryptocurrency fans will now be able to spend their haul in a wider number of locations than ever before thanks to a new launch from Coinbase.
The trading website has announced the launch of a new Visa debit card that will allow users to spend their Bitcoin, Ethereum and more.
Payments can be completed with any merchant that accepts Visa, meaning there will be a whole load of real-life and online stores able to benefit from this new spending power.
How to safely buy bitcoin and cryptocurrencies The best laptops for mining 2019: top notebooks for mining cryptocurrencies Opera now lets you buy cryptocurrency within your browser in under 60 seconds Crypto payments Users will need to download a companion mobile app called Coinbase Card, which will allow them to view and manage their finances via a mobile device.
As mentioned above, the likes of Bitcoin, Ethereum and Litecoin are among the cryptocurrencies supported - any the card will automatically take its balance directly from a user's Coinbase account.
The card will support cash point withdrawals as well as contactless payments - but as with other transactions, users will be charged a fee for this.
There's a 2.49 percent fee charged for each transaction using the card - made up of 1.49 in conversion fees and one percent transaction fee.
However there are no maintenance fees and no additional cost for ATM withdrawals - but you will need to withdraw less than 200 per month.
Using the card in other European countries will incur a 2.69 percent fee, and outside of Europe will see a 5.49 percent charge.
Coinbase says it is planning to roll out the card to other European countries soon, but there are no plans for a US launch just yet.
The card itself is available now, but costs 4.95 to order - although the first thousand customers will get it for free.
If you don't want to miss the epic conclusion to arguably the biggest TV series in the world, then you need to check out this Now TV deal so you're all set for every episode of season eight, not to mention every one from the previous seven seasons.
Actually, you could have the mother of all binges beforehand and recap the entire series before you start season eight.
We'd certainly rather do that than watch a five-minute summary of it all on YouTube.
You have a fantastic cheap option via a new Now TV pass offer today, allowing you to see the new season in its glorious entirety.
You can watch live at the same time the show broadcasts in the US at 2am each Monday or watch it later on at a more sensible hour.
Now TV 3-month Entertainment pass | 17.99 Now's TV's Entertainment pass offers Sky's hottest TV content at a ridiculously low price and with no contract tying you down either.
After the three months are up the pass auto-renews at 7.99 a month, but you can cancel at any time if you don't want to continue the service.
With so many other shows to enjoy that you won't find on Netflix or Amazon Prime, you'll probably stick around though.
View Deal You'll find the free Now TV app on a huge range of devices.
Smart TVs are most convenient if they have the app available, but you'll also find it on PlayStation and Xbox consoles, Chromecasts, Roku sticks and boxes, Apple TV, EETV, modern Youview boxes, mobiles, tablets or simply login with your PC or Mac.
If you want to check out the full range of services offered by Now TV, head on over to our Now TV deals and offers guide.
And if you've been meaning to upgrade your TV, be sure to have a peak at our roundup of the best cheap TV deals.
And if you happen to be outside the UK but still desperate for your GoT fix, then you'll need a VPN in order to get around pesky geo-blocking.
Our favourite is ExpressVPN, thanks to its speed, security and simplicity to download and use.
So now all you need to figure out is whether your're going to stay up and watch or catch it at a more reasonable hour!
Plenty of online tools will help you create a website in just a few minutes with just a few clicks, but they're not all geared towards helping photographers those people who want to show off big, beautiful galleries of images online.
If you're looking for the best website builder that's going to help you showcase your work as stylishly as possible, we've picked out four of the best for you to consider.
They all score highly for their pricing, features, ease of use, and the choice of templates they offer for getting a photo portfolio up on the web.
Once you've picked your favorite, you'll soon be getting your photos up in front of a potential audience of millions.
Some sites even give you options for selling copies of your images via the web.
Find the best website builder for photographers Format sample photography site Portfolio building made simple Clean and clear online interface Includes blog and store options Can get expensive for a lot of images If you're after simplicity first and foremost in your website builder, then check out Format it doesn't have as many advanced features or options as some of its competitors, but that means less hassle for you and a shorter time between signing up for the site and getting your photos online.
You've got 23 different templates to pick from (plus additional premium ones if you go down that route), all of which can be customized in terms of pages, layouts and colors.
Every theme adapts automatically to desktop or mobile, and you can preview all this in your browser.
As you would hope, getting images up on your site is simple, and once they're on the page they can be dragged and dropped into position as required.
If you're happy with original design of the template you've picked and the templates are all professional-looking and clean then you really can be online within minutes.
We also like Format because of the extras it throws in.
The platform lets you bring in your own domain name, set up an online store, and add a blog, with video tutorials generously spread around to help if you get stuck.
If you do know a little bit of website coding, you can edit the CSS of your site too.
There is a 14-day free trial available to test out the service.
Carbonmade sample photography site Made with creatives in mind Fun and intuitive portfolio builder Switch themes and layouts easily Rivals offer more customization On the scale of basic to advanced, Carbonmade is somewhere towards the former, but its service is specifically for creatives and that means getting your work up in a cool-looking theme is very straightforward, and actually a lot of fun too.
You only get a handful of templates to pick from, so if you'd rather spend time agonizing over a choice of hundreds, then Carbonmade perhaps isn't for you.
Once you're in, the site builder has one of the best workflows we've seen, letting you easily create projects and pages, and get your pictures uploaded to the site.
It's one of those interfaces that you really don't need an instruction manual to get around.
Everything from the published/unpublished status of your pages, to the use of thumbnails for navigation, is simple to configure.
The customization tweaks you've got, like the option to drop in a logo or a favicon, are all well chosen too.
There is also a neat communication tool called Carbonmade Messages, that lets you interact with all the people interested in your work.
Additionally, If you have a Dropbox account, you can upload files directly from there.
You don't get anything in the way of advanced features, like online sales or pages with password protection, but not everyone needs those anyway if you'd rather get your site up, get it looking good, and then get on with your photography, Carbonmade is definitely worth a look.
Squarespace sample photography site One of the giants in site building Lots of polished photo templates Website builder couldn't be easier Some users will need more customization Squarespace is one of the biggest names in website building, and it offers dozens of top-notch templates for getting your portfolio of pictures up on the web.
Whether you want your images to show up at full-screen size or you prefer the grid look, Squarespace should have something to suit.
All the image cropping and resizing is taken care of for you, so your site is going to look great on any kind of device, and there's actually quite a lot of flexibility when it comes to how your images are presented.
You can use your own branding, fonts, and colors, or take the defaults that Squarespace gives you.
To protect your images, the platform lets you password-protect certain gallery pages, and if you need to have text flowing alongside your pictures then that's simple to do as well.
Embedding a contact form only takes a few minutes if you want to give clients a way to get in touch.
Everything can be managed through an attractive web browser interface and you can also add and remove pictures from an iOS app if you need to.
It's easy to see why Squarespace is one of the more popular website builders, and it's well suited to photographers.
Dunked sample photography site Instant results with no hassle Get up and running quickly Simple and elegant interface Limited choice of templates Dunked doesn't have the same range of templates or the same depth of features as some of its rivals, but getting everything up and running is really simple and really fast.
Take a look at the templates on the home page if you like any of them, give Dunked a whirl.
As with most similar services, you've got a basic drag-and-drop interface for getting your pictures in the right place.
If needed, images can be split up into pages and categories, so whether you want to stick your whole career online or just a few select snaps, Dunked makes it possible.
Even though the choice of templates isn't the widest, they're all designed to adapt to screens of any size, and if you know a bit of CSS then you can tweak various aspects of the site design just don't expect a massive amount of help beyond the basics of colors and fonts.
Changes can be applied at any time and only take seconds.
We like the balance Dunked hits in getting you started very quickly and then giving you a few customization options later on.
It's going to be too basic for some, but if you don't want to spend hours pondering over layouts, it may well suit you perfectly.
You can try out the service free for 10 days.
Editor's note: Wix has asked not be included in this article
The gaming world has moved on a lot since the days when you only had one or two consoles to pick from.
Back in those days it was also easier to make the right choice Mario fans opt for Nintendo, Sonic fans pick Sega, easy!
But fast-forward to 2019 and choosing the right console for you is a lot harder.
Sure there are still plenty of exclusives that could seal the deal for you, but most of the new games out there these days are multi-platform.
Add mid-gen upgrades and technological advancements to bring 4K HDR to (some but not all of) your gaming, and it can be difficult to figure out which console you should buy.
The good news is, we're here to help you make that decision a little easier.
We don't play favorites and we don't have a preference for one set of titles over another.
We're just here to play by the numbers and give you all of the details on the best and brightest new hardware.
That said, we have a few questions that'll help you decide: Do you need or want 4K?
Is there a franchise you feel particularly close to?
Do you want something you can play on the go?
What's your budget?
Gamers who want to play with the latest 4K tech (and have the TV to make the most of it) should consider the Xbox One X, PS4 Pro and Xbox One S, while HD gamers can stick to the PS4 Slim and Nintendo Switch.
If you're a racing or a shooting game fan, Xbox has a lot of first-party titles that cater to that genre while Sony has tons of great action-adventure and RPG titles.
Nintendo has a mix of everything, but you should go for Nintendo if you can't live without an annual Pokemon and Mario title in your life.
To help make things a little less complicated, we've compiled this guide to the latest consoles on the market and weighed up their most notable pros and cons with links to other dedicated pages and reviews if you want to dive even deeper.
Sony PlayStation PlayStation 4 The affordable all-rounder Dimensions: 11 x 10 x 1.5 inch(W x L x H) | GPU: 1.84 TFLOPS, AMD Radeon based graphics engine | RAM: 8 GB of GDDR5 | Max Resolution: 1080p | Optical Drive: DVD/Blu-ray | Storage: 500GB or 1TB (expandable) Great exclusive games VR support Affordable No 4K Poor backwards compatibility Available in standard or slim versions, the PS4 is the baseline console offering from Sony.
Since it launched 4 years ago, the PlayStation 4 has been a firm fan favorite, boasting incredible sales figures.
The console's single biggest strength is its exclusive games - in world of increasingly service-based online titles, PlayStation continues to push narrative-driven single-player titles such as Uncharted, Spider-Man, God of War, Horizon Zero Dawn, and The Last of Us.
Its also the only console at the moment that offers access to virtual reality experiences (though you will have to purchase the PlayStation VR headset separately if you want to take advantage of this capability).
If you're interested in the new 4K resolution everyone's talking about, you won't find that here.
While even the budget Xbox One S offers 4K upscaling, the base PS4 is resolutely 1080p.
PlayStation also isn't great when it comes to backwards compatibility so if you're hoping you'll be able to play your old PlayStation 3 library with ease, you won't.
If youre looking to enter the latest console generation in the most affordable way possible and you like what games PlayStation has to offer then this is the console to go for.
Buy this if you want: the latest generation games but dont need 4K, you want PlayStation exclusive games, console VR, and a console for under 250/$250.
Key reads: Make sure you check out our full PlayStation 4 review and our picks of the best PS4 games.
Think it's the console for you?
These are the best PS4 deals you can get right now.
PlayStation 4 Pro The cheapest way to native 4K Dimensions: 12.8 x 11.6 x 2.1 inch (W x L x H) | GPU: 4.20 TFLOPS, AMD Radeon based graphics engine | RAM: 8 GB of GDDR5, 1 GB DDR3 | Max Resolution: 2160p | Optical Drive: DVD/Blu-ray | Storage: 1TB (expandable) Everything good about the PlayStation 4 Native and upscaled 4K A more affordable 4K option No need for a new game library No 4K Blu-ray support Not the most powerful 4K console at the moment Anything the PlayStation 4 can do, the PlayStation 4 Pro can do slightly better.
If youre invested in the 4K resolution revolution and HDR makes you hot under the collar, this is the Sony console for you.
The PlayStation 4 Pro plays all the same games as the standard PlayStation 4, so if you're upgrading you won't have to start your library afresh and you won't need to pay any more for new 4K games either.
You may, however, see an improvement in how they look and perform compared to the standard PS4.
The PlayStation 4 Pro is the most powerful console in the PlayStation lineup at the moment, capable of outputting native and upscaled 4K in games that have been patched to make that possible.
Even games that havent been specifically patched can make something of this consoles greater power youll find images look a little sharper and games will overall run more smoothly thanks to the PS4 Pros Boost Mode.
Like the standard PS4, this console has an excellent library of games and some fantastic exclusives as well as Playstation VR support.
Though it's capable, it's not every game that will output native 4K on the PS4 Pro many of them will be upscaled as the console just doesn't have quite the degree of power required to maintain native 4K resolution and run a large game with consistent frame rates.
The PS4 Pro also has the same problem as the PS4 in that there isn't good backwards compatibility for previous console generations.
There's also no built-in Ultra HD Blu-ray player so if you're looking for a console that will play your physical 4K media, this isn't the one.
It will, however, still play standard Blu-rays and DVDs, and can stream in 4K from compatible services.
If you dont have a 4K HDR TV and super sharp visuals arent something that will drastically improve your enjoyment of a game then this console might not actually be worth the extra cash youll splash on it, particularly if you already own a standard PS4 console.
If you are coming into the new console generation for the first time and a 4K HDR TV is something youre seriously considering purchasing, then the Pro will at the very least future-proof you.
Buy this if you want: Native 4K and HDR gaming, PlayStation exclusives, VR gaming, native 4K for under 350/$400.
Key reads: Check out our full PS4 Pro review as well as our list of the best games for the console.
Think you might make the jump to 4K?
These are the best PS4 Pro deals at the moment.
Microsoft Xbox Xbox One S The affordable media center Dimensions: 11.6 x 8.9 x 2.5 inch (W x L x H) | GPU: 917 MHz, AMD Radeon based graphics engine | RAM: 8 GB of GDDR3 | Max Resolution: 1080p (max 2160p for video) | Optical Drive: 4K/HDR Blu-ray | Storage: 500GB, 1TB or 2TB Very affordable console 4K Blu-ray player Upscaled 4K gaming Excellent backwards compatibility Not many great first-party exclusives Upscaling isn't very refined Looking for an entry level console but not interested in what PlayStation has to offer?
Why not look at Microsofts Xbox One S. This console has superseded the original Xbox One for many reasons it has a much smaller and sleeker design, and it's just that little bit more powerful.
Something this console can do that the standard PS4 console cant is upscaled 4K.
The Xbox One Ss 4K capabilities arent at the same level as the PS4 Pro or Xbox One X as the 1080p images are largely just stretched to fit a 4K screen without any clever checkerboarding but this rudimentary upscaling is reasonably impressive in a console with price starting from only 170/$190.
To make up for a lack of good exclusives, Xbox consoles do have much better backwards compatibility capabilities than PlayStation consoles.
On Xbox One S youll be able to purchase and play original Xbox and Xbox 360 titles, many of which have become key classics.
If you ever owned an older Xbox console and you still have the games from that, or you really want to catch up on a bunch of excellent titles you missed out on then the Xbox One S is a great way to do this.
An area where Xbox completely outstrips PlayStation is overall home entertainment while both consoles are able to stream from a variety of entertainment apps like Netflix and Amazon, the Xbox also has a 4K Blu-ray player built in.
This is a feature Sony was criticized for not having in the PlayStation 4 Pro, so if you have a large physical Ultra HD Blu-ray collection and its important to you that youre able to play it then the Xbox One S will definitely win your favor here.
If youve been thinking about picking up an Ultra HD Blu-ray player anyway, then this console is one of the cheapest ways to do so.
One issue Xbox has compared to PlayStation is exclusive games.
Where PlayStation has quite a robust collection of exclusives, Xbox is somewhat lacking.
Franchises such as Halo, Gears of War and Forza might call this platform home, but their critical reception hasn't quite hit the heights of Horizon: Zero Dawn and Uncharted.
Though it does offer upscaled 4K, the Xbox One S's upscaling method is far less intelligent than the checkerboard method used by the PlayStation 4 Pro so if you're looking for a truly polished 4K experience, it's best to splash the extra cash on the PlayStation 4 Pro or the next Xbox console in our round up.
Buy this if you want: Affordable but upscaled 4K, an Ultra HD Blu-ray player, excellent backwards compatibility, a console for under 250/$250.
Key reads: Make sure you read our full Xbox One S review as well as our picks of the best Xbox One games to see what you could be playing.
Think this is the console for you?
These are the best Xbox One S deals right now.
Xbox One X The future-proofed power box Dimensions: 11.8 x 9.5 x 2.4 inch(W x L x H) | GPU: 6 TFLOPS, AMD Radeon based graphics engine | RAM: 12 GB of GDDR5 | Max Resolution: 2160p | Optical Drive: 4K/HDR Blu-ray | Storage: 1TB Most powerful console on the market Native and upscaled 4K 4K Blu-ray player Excellent backwards compatibility Most expensive console Small internal hard drive for size of 4K assets Lack of exclusives If power is the be all and end all for you, then you wont find a more powerful console than the brand new Xbox One X.
Do bear in mind, though, that you also wont find a more expensive console either.
The Xbox One X is Microsofts answer to Sonys PS4 Pro and its safe to say its a pretty good one.
Just like the PS4 Pro this console outputs native and upscaled 4K as well as HDR on games that have been patched to support these features.
But because of its much better specs the Xbox One X offers native 4K on many more games than the PS4 Pro.
And it's often more consistent in maintaining a 4K output.
If youre looking for the best 4K gaming experience possible on a console, the Xbox One X should be your choice.
Like the Xbox One S, this console has excellent backwards compatibility support as well as a built-in Ultra HD Blu-ray player for your physical media collection.
However, also like the Xbox One S, it suffers from a lack of console exclusives that really show what it can do.
It's also the most expensive console on the market by a large amount.
As a result, if you don't have the AV set up to do it justice it's hard to justify paying quite so much, particularly as the library of exclusive games is rather thin at the moment.
Something also worth noting is that you may find you have to purchase a sold-separately external hard drive for this console.
While its 1TB of built-in storage seems like a lot, 4K game files are large and it'll quickly fill up.
Buy this if you want: Native 4K and HDR support, Ultra HD Blu-ray player, future-proofed gaming, the highest specs around.
Key reads: Read our full Xbox One X review to dig into the details and peruse our list of games that take advantage of the console's power.
Think the king of consoles is the one for you?
These are the best Xbox One X deals right now.
Nintendo Nintendo Switch The versatile newbie Dimensions: 4 x 9.5 x 5.4 inch(W x L x H) with Joy-Cons | GPU: 768MHz (docked)/307.2MHz (undocked) Nvidia custom Tegra SOC | RAM: 4 GB | Max Resolution: docked 720p, undocked 1080p | Optical Drive: None | Storage: 32GB (expandable) | Portable battery life: approx 3 hours Portable and home console Great first-party exclusives Not as powerful as other home consoles Less extensive third-party game selection Still no fully-fledged online service The Nintendo Switch is the new kid on the console block now more than a year old, it's still proving to be very popular.
This is the most unique option on the market at the moment as you can use it both as a handheld and home TV console.
On Switch you'll find a quickly growing library of games thats the most diverse offering from Nintendo in years.
From thrilling exclusives like Super Mario Odyssey to essential indies like Stardew Valley, Nintendo's Switch offers all kinds of experiences.
It doesnt have nearly the same power as the standard PlayStation 4 and Xbox consoles and it certainly wont play games in 4K or support HDR (in fact its screen is a pretty low-res 720p) so if youre looking for a console that will win the spec wars you wont find it here.
Youre also less likely to find the latest and greatest third-party games on this console.
While it now has titles such as Doom, Skyrim and LA Noire, many of these have been available on other platforms for months, if not years.
We're slowly watching that change but the latest and greatest releases may still not make it here purely due to a lack of power.
Of course, where PlayStation offers VR, Nintendo has its very own something special in the form of Nintendo Labo.
This cardboard peripheral is one of the most innovative things we've seen in years and it has the potential to be great.
It's also worth being aware that you're likely to need to purchase a separate microSD card for this console at some point as its internal memory is restrictive.
Buy this if you want: a console that can be played on your home TV and taken on the go, access to Nintendo exclusive games, and you dont need the highest resolution and the most powerful specs.
Key reads: Looking to know more about the console?
This is our full Nintendo Switch review.
We also have a list of the best games the console has to offer.
Think you're ready to Switch it up?
These are the best Nintendo Switch deals at the moment.
Nintendo 2DS XL The affordable portable Dimensions: 3.4 x 6.3 x 0.85 inch(W x L x H) when closed | GPU: 804 MHz ARM11 MPCore quad-core | RAM: 256MB FCRAM, 10MB VRAM | Max Resolution: 240p | Optical Drive: None | Storage: 4GB | Portable battery life: approx 4 hours Light and sturdy Good library of games Perfect for younger gamers Very affordable Least powerful console Aging platform means declining developer support While the Switch is by far the most powerful and multifunctional Nintendo console on the market at the moment, the 3DS and 2DS XL are still excellent handheld-only options.
Their lightness and portability make them perfect for the busy commuter but if youre buying a console for a slightly younger gamer then the 3DS and 2DS XL are also great choices.
They have an extremely large and diverse library of games to play and theyre more affordable than ever.
In addition to this, theyre probably the most sturdy option dropping your Switch would be a catastrophe but dropping the clamshell DS is less likely to end in a cracked screen.
These are definitely the least powerful options on the market right now and you certainly won't find the latest games on this platform.
Though Nintendo has vowed to continue to support these consoles, it's worth noting that their age and increasingly inadequate power means developers are likely to stop releasing their latest games on them.
The Pokemon series, for example, which has always been exclusively on Nintendo's handhelds will no longer be released on the DS platform Pokemon Lets Go and its successors will from now on land on the Switch instead.
Buy this if you want: a sturdy console for younger gamers, a portable handheld, some of the best Nintendo exclusive games, a console for under 150/$150.
Key reads: Make sure you check out our full 2DS XL and 3DS reviews and scan through the best games for both consoles.
Positive about the portable?
These are the best deals right now.
Samsung is gearing up to launch the Galaxy A70 in India.
The phone was listed on the Samsung India website which indicates at an impending announcement.
It recently went on sale in China at CNY 2,999 after being announced last month.
The Galaxy A70 is the fifth phone in the company's revamped A-series and comes with a u-shaped notch on the front along with three cameras on the back.
As of now, there's no official word on the launch or its price in India but we expect it to be priced around CNY 2,999.
This translates roughly to Rs 30,900 which is the budget segment the Galaxy A70 will land up in.
Also Read: Samsung Galaxy A70 hands on review Samsung Galaxy A70 specifications Samsung Galaxy A70 features a 6.7-inch Full HD+ (2400 x 1080 pixels) Super AMOLED display which has a u-shaped cutout on the front.
This infinity-u shaped notch houses the front-facing 32MP camera for selfies.
It is powered by Qualcomm Snapdragon 675 chipset with an octa-core CPU and is backed by 6GB of RAM and 128GB onboard storage.
Users have the option to further expand the storage by up to 512GB via microSD card.
The Galaxy A70 runs on Android 9.0 Pie under the company's new One UI.
It has a triple camera setup on the back which consists of a primary 32MP camera with an f/1.7 aperture along with an 8MP ultra-wide snapper and a 5MP depth sensor.
Samsung has provided a 4,5000mAh battery onboard the A70 and it supports fast battery charging through a 25W adapter.
Hopefully you have filed your 2017/18 tax return by now (or else you will be looking at a fine).
Was it a smooth process or a complete headache that took far too much time?
If the latter, then a New (Tax) Years resolution could be to ensure you get organised early for this years return.
With new rules introduced in April this year as part of the UKs Making Tax Digital initiative, ensuring your finances are in line, easy to view and understand is essential.
The changes being introduced will mean all VAT-registered businesses turning over 85,000 need to submit quarterly tax returns using HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) compliant software.
The deadline for SMEs and sole traders to manage their tax online is expected to be extended to 2020, yet with so many benefits to gain from managing your finances digitally, small businesses and entrepreneurs can get ahead of the game by beginning their preparations now.
Here are some tips on how to move towards a paperless, and painless, tax return.
Image Credit: Pixabay (Image: Pixabay) Organise your filing Most people set up a spreadsheet on which to record their monthly income sources and expenses.
This can work fine, if youre the sort of person who is good at remembering to update records regularly a spreadsheet like this really needs to be completed monthly to stop it becoming a monster of a job as the tax return deadline looms.
The other challenge is keeping track of all the bits of paper needed to prove income and outgoing.
People often use a traditional receipt-spike or simply a drawer or place they consider to be safe and keep their receipts and tax documents in there.
Expenses receipts might be print-outs from online purchases, or they might be hidden away and almost forgotten in pockets and wallets, cars and handbags its always worth having a good search and putting them in a safe place.
Go paperless As an alternative to traditional filing, eliminate the tiresome manual data entry step by digitising all your tax and income documents along with expenses receipts on an ongoing basis.
Instead of putting them in the drawer, simply pop them through a document scanner that saves them directly to a folder to be sent to your accountant at the end of the year, or even uploaded to a cloud-based accountancy software application.
Image Credit: Shutterstock Direct to cloud The rise in software as a service (SaaS) is seeing many accountancy firms adopt cloud-based applications so it makes sense to get on-board with this inevitable progression.
This is especially important as when Making Tax Digital is fully implemented, well all have to manage our tax and finances through these tools.
Moving to cloud accounting can be straightforward.
Packages such as Quickbooks or Sage Business cloud, are easy to use, and the benefits include real time collaboration with accountants and advisors, bank-level security, 24-hour access to your information and real time reconciliation with your bank.
The challenge is that document management and organisation will become more important than ever.
The case for cloud accounting The best way to be organised, maintain accurate records and be able to save them directly to cloud accounting systems is to digitise all your tax documents, invoices, expense receipts, employee records, and other items, instead of relying on a paper-based system.
There are some great document scanning solutions on the market today that can scan and store files directly to your selected cloud service.
Some software can even recognise data on receipts then automatically extract the relevant information into editable fields for uploading to the cloud.
It is also possible to get a scanner that learns so that the accuracy of information recognition and extraction, as well as automatic file name suggestions, increases the more scanning you do.
The way UK businesses manage their tax obligations is changing quickly and making sure your small business is organised and positioned for future change is essential.
Acting sooner rather than later will ensure you avoid late fees, that you are protected against wasting unnecessary time and that you are fully capable of meeting the requirements of Making Tax Digital.
Jason Rowles, Regional Sales Manager UK & ROI of PFU EMEA
Got some good news to share with us about your moves?
Send the details to desire.athow@futurenet.com with a photo if possible.
Intel recruits Qualcomm CFO as new finance chief Qualcomm CFO George Davis has left Intel to take up the same role at rival Intel.
Davis joined Qualcomm in 1997 and held his most recent role since 2013.
BTGS gets first Director of Media and Technology (Image Credit: Roger Woodend) (Image: Roger Woodend) BTGS has named Roger Woodend as its first Director of Media and Technology.
Woodend has been at BT for 15 years and will head up the newly-established global team from New York City.
CityFibre names Simon Holden as Group COO (Image credit: CityFibre) (Image: CityFibre) Simon Holden has been appointed to a newly created position of Group Chief Operating Officer at CityFibre, reporting directly to CEO Greg Mesch.
Holden joins from Holdman Sachs, where he spent 18 years in London and New York.
A1 Comms appoints O2 alumni as Business MD Steve Heald has been named as the new Managing Director of A1 Comms' businessn division.
Heald joins from O2 where he was head of B2B direct partners.
Colt appoints new head of mobile connectivity solutions Mark Gilmour is the new Head of Mobile Connectivity Solutions at Colt Technology Services.
Most recently he was Senior Advisor for Product Line Management Cellular and Wireless at Ciena.
Philip Jansen assumes control of BT Philip Jansen has formally succeeded Gavin Patterson as CEO of BT following a transition period.
Jansen was previously co-CEO of Worldpay Nokia has named Sandra Motley as President of its Fixed Networks Business Group.
Motley replaces Federico Guilln who is the new Nokia President of Customer Operations and joined the company as part of the Alcatel-Lucent merger in 2016.
Hyperoptic names new ISP Managing Director Charles Davies is the new MD for Hyperoptics ISP business.
Davies will work to build the Hyperoptic brand and will report to CEO Dana Tobak.
GSMA appoints new chair Orange CEO Stephane Richard has been named the new Chair of the GSMA.
He will be responsible for overseeing strategic direction that the mobile industry body.
BT Security CEO quits the company BT Security CEO Mark Hughes is leaving his position to take on a "senior" role at another company, reports the FT. Hughes had spent 16 years at BT and will now oversee a transition period.
BT has confirmed Worldpay joint-CEO Philip Jansen will become its new chief executive next year, ending the search for a successor to current boss Gavin Patterson.
Tech21 promotes Colin Woodward to CEO Mobile phone case manufacturer Tech21 has named its former marketing director and head of sales Colin Woodward as its new CEO.
Woodward has 20 years experience in the technology industry having previously served at HTC and Sony BT and EE alumnus Mansoor Hanif is Ofcoms new Chief Technology Officer (CTO), replacing the long-serving Steve Unger who left the regulator in June.
Hanifs new remit will be to ensure Ofcoms work is informed by the latest developments in network technology, having previously served as head of convergence at BT-EE.
Boris Dragovic is Hyperoptic's Chief Strategy and Transformation Officer Fibre to the Premise (FTTP) network builder Hyperoptic has appointed Boris Dragovic has been appointed as Chief Strategy and Transformation Officer.
Dragovic will be responsible for helping the altnet scale and operate more efficiently as it gears up for expansion Three CTO Bryn Jones has left the company after six years, believing the time is right for a career and lifestyle change.
Jones joined Three in May 2012 and was responsible for network strategy, design and deployment.
Prior to that he was Director of Mobile Delivery at Virgin Media.
Max Taylor departs EE as BT combines marketing roles EE's MD of marketing Max Taylor has left company to take on a new position elsewhere.
Pete Oliver has taken on the newly combined role of Marketing for BT Consumer, EE and Plusnet.
Taylor had been at EE for 15 years Wilkin Lee departs from Honor Wilkin Lee has left his role as Honor UK sales and marketing director after nearly four years with the Huawei-owned smartphone maker.
It is unclear where his next position will be, but Lee did say on Twitter that there were exciting challenges in the pipeline.
Mike Surrey is new Gigaclear CEO Gigaclear COO Mike Surrey has been promoted to CEO following the departure of Matthew Hare.
Hare, who founded the alternative network infrastructure builder, had been a champion for ultrafast broadband during his eight year tenure.
Nick Read will become the new CEO of Vodafone Group in October, replacing the long-serving Vittorio Colao, who spent a decade in the top job.
Read is the current CFO of Vodafone Group and has previously served as the CEO of Vodafone UK.
Uber appoints former Virgin Mobile MD as head of Northern Europe Uber has appointed the former MD of Virgin Mobile as its new head of Northern and Eastern Europe.
He was previously director of electronics at Amazon UK and replaces Jo Bertram who left last year.
His biggest task will be dealing with Transport for London (TfL) about renewing his licence.
Orange Business Services appoints Helmut Reisinger as CEO Helmut Reisinger has been promoted to CEO of Orange Business Services, replacing Thierry Bonhomme, who will retire later this year.
Reisinger was previously head of international, covering the firm's business outside France, and will report directly to Orange CEO Stephane Richard.
Andrew Cantle is Unlockd's new Chief Commercial Officer Andrew Cantle is the new chief commercial officer at mobile advertising firm Unlockd.
Cantle was previously head of EMEA and APAC at GoCanvas and before that he was Australia and UK country manager at Tranglo Mobile Payments.
At Unlockd, he will be tasked with growing the firm and obtaining new supply partners.
Matt Stagg swaps EE role for BT Sport Director of Mobile Strategy EE's head of media and broadcast Matt Stagg is to take up the newly created role of BT Sport Director of Mobile Strategy.
Mobile is an increasingly important platform for the broadcaster and Stagg will be tasked with growing the audience and helping identify new technologies.
Gerry McQuade to be BT Enterprise CEO Gerry McQuade will be the first chief executive of the new BT Enterprise division when it launches on 1 October.
McQuade is currently CEO of BT Wholesale and Ventures, which is to be combined with BT Business and Public Sector, whose own CEO Graeme Sutherland is to depart the company.
Paul Jacobs joins Exertis from Tech Data Exertis has appointed Paul Jacobs to the newly created position of Director of business development and innovation, where he will be responsible for bringing new and emerging technologies that can add value to resellers.
He was previously Business Unit Director at Tech Data UK.
Huawei has named Anson Zhang as the new UK managing director for its consumer business.
Zhang joined the company as its Finland MD in 2009 before taking up similar positions in Poland and the Czech Republic.
Ericsson names new chief legal officer Ericsson appoints Xavier Dedullen (pictured) as it chief legal officer and head of legal affairs of compliance.
He was previously Group General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer at Swiss-based firm LafargeHolcim.
Ericsson has also appointed its CTO Erik Ekudden to its executive team.
Former Uber head is O2's new chief digital and strategy officer Jo Bertram has been named O2's new digital and strategy officer, reporting directly to CEO Mark evans reports the FT. Bertram was head of Uber's northern European business but left last October.
Since then she has been an executive in residence at tech fund EQT Ventures, a position she will retain once she joins O2 in April.
Andrew Taylor to be new Gamma Communications CEO Andrew Taylor will take over the reins as CEO of Gamma Communications in May following the retirement of long-serving incumbent Bob Falconer.
Taylor was previously CEO of Nomad Digital, which was acquired by Alstom in 2017, and before that was at Digicel where he oversaw the firms fixed and mobile networks in the Northern Caribbean BT appoints new Chief Strategy and Transformation Officer BT has hired Michael Sherman to fill the newly-created role of Chief Strategy and Transformation Officer, reporting to CEO Gavin Patterson.
Sherman joins from the Boston Consulting Group where he spent 11 years heading its Technology, Media and Telecommunications (TMT) group in the US.
Acer has appointed a new country manager for the UK, with Craig Booth promoted from within to replace Preben Fjeld who became Lenovos General Manager for UK and Ireland last November.
Micron makes key appointment Micron has appointed Raj Talluri as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Mobile Business Unit.
He will be responsible for leading and growing Microns mobile business.
This includes building mobile solutions to address the growing market opportunity driven by new usage models.
Autonomous cars are tantalizingly close, with real-world trials in progress around the world, but they still face several challenges before they can become mainstream particularly when it comes to building the high quality maps that will be essential for them to drive safely.
Many automakers are working on their own mapping systems, or using ones from different vendors, but it would make much more sense if there was a way of pooling and standardizing all that information so that everyone can benefit.
HERE Technologies specializes in mapping, and hopes to make that goal a reality to accurately map the world in preparation for an autonomous future.
We spoke to Sanjay Sood, the company's vice president of highly automated driving, to find out how.
HERE and now HERE Technologies is owned by a consortium of carmakers (BMW, Audi and Daimler), which despite being rivals, are working together to usher in a new era of driving.
It specializes in creating what it calls HD maps, which are detailed enough to provide autonomous cars with the data they need to make decisions safely, and are kept updated by collecting real-world data from drivers.
Four or five years ago, Sood says, there was skepticism among automakers about whether HD maps (or any maps at all) would actually be necessary for autonomous cars, which some suggesting that the car's sensors might be enough, but there now seems to be a consensus that those alone aren't enough.
"We've been in the business of HD maps since 2013," explains Sood.
"We pride ourselves as an organization for pretty much inventing the notion of an HD map in conjunction with automated driving systems."
Image credit: HERE Technologies (Image: HERE) That work began with an automated driving demo for Daimler in 2013, which followed the Bertha Benz Memorial Route and marked the 125th anniversary of the world's first long distance road trip.
"At that point we were providing map content for infotainment use cases, or navigation use cases for Daimler, and together we said, hey, look, there's probably a need for a higher definition map something that's way more accurate than anything we've ever created before to assist the self-driving software to understand its location, its context, to be able to operate smoothly and safely," says Sood.
"So we built a prototype for them, and then we realized very quickly that this is a pretty key ingredient in a self-driving car stack.
And so for the last five or six years now, we've been working on productionizing the technology.
So taking it from a concept car to something that actually can scale and cover massive amounts of geography, because we think that's one of the one of the key components to successfully deploying the technology to be able to do global scale, or a continent scale."
Building the map Building any HD map is a challenge, and keeping it constantly updated even more so, due to the changing nature of road layouts and features.
The traditional method of collecting map data is industrial capture high precision data capture from aerial sources (like planes or drones), satellites, and terrestrial sources (specially equipped cars).
Another method crowdsourcing, capturing data from the sensors on production cars, or mobile phones.
This data is much lower fidelity than that recorded using industrial capture, but if you have enough of it, you can aggregate it and use it to build a map.
"Now the good thing about that approach is that it's scalable," Sood explains.
"It doesn't cost as much as building these custom mapping equipment systems.
The downside, however, is that the data is relatively inaccurate because it doesn't have lots of hardware to support the accuracy of the collection.
Also, its just not available widespread today."
HERE Technologies therefore uses a combination of both, creating maps using industrial capture and making small updates using crowdsourced data.
"So we've created this big base map out there that's highly accurate, and now you can take this low-fidelity data that comes from cell phones or production vehicles, and we pull it together among various car companies, and then we use that to help update the map," Sood says.
"So we're creating one global map that many OEMs can benefit from because they're all providing data to a pool, that helps the industry as a whole maintain and create an asset that can be used for autonomous driving.
"So I think our approach is very different than companies that are doing a pure we're going to crowdsource this thing, or other companies that are doing an industrial approach, but have no access to sensor data because they're not as closely aligned with the automotive industry."
Getting together Mapping the world also introduces some tough political challenges.
Roaming the streets of LA with a sensor-studded car is one thing, but Pyongyang is a different matter entirely.
To solve that problem, HERE has created a partnership called the OneMap Alliance.
"In certain geographies you have geopolitical issues that make it very hard to become a mapmaker on a global scale," says Sood.
"For example, China, where you have to have a government license to map the roads and create these types of geospatial representations.
We partnered with a company which is owned by Tencent, and what we do with them is essentially creating a global HD live map offering that includes China.
We work very closely with NavInfo on ensuring that the map that they create in China aligns with our global specification."
Image credit: HERE Technologies (Image: HERE technologies) "And what that means for the OEM, then, is that if they want to purchase or license map content, they can essentially license one map protocol that works across China and the rest of the world, so they don't have to build a separate system for China and one for the rest of the world.
They can build one and it works seamlessly."
HERE has taken the same approach with South Korea, where limitations on taking mapping data overseas means all the processing is done in-country in partnership with the country's second-largest telecoms operator, SKT Telecom.
In Japan, HERE works with Pioneer to avoid issues with the country's limitations on the number of players in the market.
"This kind of global footprint [...] requires a level of scale that few companies can bring," says Sood.
"HERE is one of those few companies that had the global footprint, and can form these types of alliances to really create a global offering for the industry."
Mapping a data-centric world So which areas has HERE HD-mapped so far?
Currently North America and Western Europe have the most coverage, since that's where most of the company's customers are based, but the Middle East and Southeast Asia are increasingly well documented too.
"Where we focus is essentially where we see this technology being adopted in production format first," says Sood.
"Primarily with the customers we work with, its going to be North America, Western Europe.
And then there are certain places like Singapore, Japan, where we have partnerships, China where we also have a partnership for HD maps, South Korea as well.
"So you have the advanced economies or growing technology economies in Asia, and then the traditional places where you see this automotive technology being rolled out, which is North America and Western Europe."
Of course, all that global data is only useful if it's consistent, so HERE is also working on establishing standards so that automakers worldwide can use its maps and contribute, too.
"We're really about trying to open up and standardize so it's very easy for companies to operate in this data-centric world, and be able to exchange data between proprietary back-ends, and essentially be a global cloud like the IoT," says Sood.
Trust is still one of the biggest limitations for self-driving cars, but with a dependable global mapping system that's constantly updated with even small changes, they'll be a big step closer to winning our confidence.
Netflix for TV and films, Spotify for music, PlayStation Plus for consoles.
We're now well used to paying subscription fees for our over-the-top entertainment needs.
So while the debut of ESPN+ a year ago today seemed to come from nowhere in order to shake up sports spectating habits, it also felt like a completely natural way to get some of the most enticing sports events on the planet.
And as far as rookie seasons go, ESPN+ has been something of an MVP.
The service has managed to attract coverage of some of the biggest events around to show to its subscribers, giving tremendous value for money to those people happy to part with the relatively meagre $4.99 per month.
And with the big Lomachenko vs Crolla fight, the FA Cup soccer final and its first exclusive UFC PPV all just around the corner, it already looks like the sophomore year for ESPN+ might be just as action-packed.
We've taken a look through the ESPN+ archives to refresh our memory about some of the big hits subscribers have been able to enjoy over the last 12 months and distilled them into a top five (it wasn't easy!).
How to get ESPN+ The service costs $4.99 per month - so not huge sums, and less than streaming services like Netflix (and a lot less than cable).
That lets you watch online, but also via its mobile app and TV streamer apps on the likes of Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV, Roku, PlayStation 4 and Xbox.
And there's no long term commitment, meaning that you can cancel at any time if you decide you no longer want it.
But the best news is that you can grab a seven-day FREE trial.
So if you haven't used ESPN+ before, you can sign up for that and get a taster of its sports events without paying a thing.
View Deal See how ESPN+ performs in our best sports streaming sites countdown Image credit: MOHD RASFAN/AFP/Getty Images (Image: MOHD RASFAN/AFP/Getty Images) 5.
Manny Pacquiao returns to the ring If a Manny Pacquiao boxing match is only fifth in the countdown, then you know it must have been a good year for sport.
After the legendary Filipino boxer lost to Jeff Horn in July 2017, there were no shortage of pundits predicting that his career was over.
So what does Pac-Man do a year later?
Challenge Lucas Matthysse for his WBA welterwight title, of course...and then proceed to score his first knockout win in nine years to take home the title.
It was an unforgettable night for Manny, who has since turned 40 and challenged Floyd Mayweather Jr to a mouthwatering, big money rematch.
Image credit: Charlotte Wilson/Offside/Getty Images (Image: Charlotte Wilson/Offside/Getty Images) 4.
Manchester City go for the quadruple The Premier League is arguably the world's most exciting and certainly the richest.
That's why it can attract the best players and managers around.
Man City are the epitome of this, with the likes of Sergio 'Kun' Aguero, Kevin De Bruyne, David Silva, Raheem Sterling on the pitch and manager Pep Guardiola calling the shots from the bench.
And this season they could make history - the Champions League and Premier title in their sights making up two parts of an unheralded quadruple.
And ESPN+ has had all the action from their thrilling penalty shoot-out win against Chelsea in the Carabao Cup final and their FA Cup semi-final victory over Brighton last weekend.
Image credit: Marc Atkins/Getty Images (Image: Marc Atkins/Getty Images) 3.
The introduction of Nations League soccer Just when everybody stopped caring about international football outside the World Cup, the UEFA Nations League was introduced in Europe to really shake things up.
On paper it seemed overly complicated and pointless, but the games that took place from September to November last year proved how entertaining competitive international fixtures can be and the project has already been deemed a roaring success.
ESPN+ was there to broadcast this fresh format to the US from the outset, with the finals due to take place in Portugal in June 2019.
Image credit: Josh Hedges/Zuffa LLC/Zuffa LLC via Getty Images (Image: Josh Hedges/Zuffa LLC/Zuffa LLC via Getty Images) 2.
1st UFC Fight Night on ESPN+: Cejudo vs Dillashaw Of all the sports that ESPN+ has targeted, it seems to have been most hellbent on getting the Ultimate Fighting Championship on its books.
And it confirmed that it would become UFC's exclusive broadcaster even before the service went live back in March 2018.
After months of waiting ESPN+ finally debuted its MMA coverage on January 19 with UFC Fight Night 143, generating an estimated 525,000 new subscribers to the service on the day of the event alone.
After all that waiting, the main event was over in little more than 30 seconds as Henry Cejudo pummelled T.J. Dillashaw into a knockout to retain his UFC Flyweight Championship.
It was a brutal performance and raised the bar for future events - this weekend sees the first UFC PPV produced by ESPN+, headlined by Holloway vs Poirier 2.
Image credit: Drew Hallowell/Getty Images (Image: Drew Hallowell/Getty Images) 1.
Bryce Harper's Phillies debut on opening day The start of the MLB baseball is always cause for enough excitement and a marker that spring has arrived.
ESPN+ for its part announced that it would provide coverage for one match per day during the regular season - a great boost for subscribers.
And it really smashed it out of the park on Opening Day, bagging Bryce Harper's first game for the Phillies against the Atlanta Braves.
With his $330 million move to Philadelphia raising expectation beyond all reasonable levels, the pressure was on to silence his doubters and show the world what a third of a billion dollars can get.
After all, Harper was the man who became the first player in MLB history to hit five home runs in opening games before the age of 25.
Harper may have failed to get a hit in that first match, but he since followed things up with a homer in each of his next two games at Citizens Bank Park.
And the journey all started on ESPN+.
Ofcom has launched three consultations that will determine the future of how landline phone numbers as the market transitions from analogue to IP-based communications and how all numbers (including mobile) are regulated.
One proposal is the creation of a common database of phone numbers.
This, Ofcom argues, will allow operators to and identify nuisance callers and would also allow consumers and businesses to easily move their number when they change provider.
But the biggest change could see an overhaul of area codes as traffic shifts from landline networks onto over-the-top applications.
Landline use in UK decreases Openreach connects 1.2m to FTTP What is 5G?
Everything you need to know Landline future In 2012, the UK made 103 billion minutes of calls but in 2017 this had fallen by around half to 54 million.
The number of voice minutes rose modestly from 131.1 billion to 148.6 billion during the same period, while the average monthly data consumption increased from 0.2GB to 1.9GB.
Ofcom acknowledges that older generations value conversation and the confidence that a local number inspires in a business but says younger people dont enter phone numbers and instead use contacts applications to make calls.
Area codes came into effect in the 1950s and were originally formed composed of 01 followed by two digits determined by the location and another digit.
For example, Aberdeen is 01224 because AB is 22 on an alphanumeric keypad.
However, the growth in the number of users has seen a number of changes to this system most notably the use of 02 numbers in major cities like London and future changes could be on the horizon.
Ofcoms consultation is inviting views on what changes, if any, should be made to the system and whether future codes should include geographical information.
The final consultation concerns interconnection.
At present, landline operators charge each other for connecting calls between their networks.
These charges are controlled by Ofcom, which wants to understand how the shift to Internet calling will affect its regulatory policy.
Currently there are any number of cloud-based services offering to handle your organizations backups, manage costs, monitor performance and much more.
As your business grows the information generated can be overwhelming which is why any sensible SMB employs cloud management software.
These are designed as a way to consolidate information on your various public/hybrid clouds.
In this guide, youll discover some of the very best cloud management tools designed to take the stress out of handling cloud-based services and data for you.
All of these providers use an API and/or dashboard to monitor services, apps and data to provide useful information.
Many also automate routine tasks such as applying updates.
We've also highlighted the best cloud brokers Want your company or services to be added to this buyers guide?
Please email your request to desire.athow@futurenet.com with the URL of the buying guide in the subject line.
Image Credit: Apache Manage your machines with ease thanks to Apaches free and open source platform AWS E2 compatible Free and open source Not entirely customizable Apache CloudStack is an open-sourced cloud computing company which creates, manages and deploys infrastructure cloud services.
The software is designed as highly scalable Infrastructure as a Service.
The cloud platform is used to deploy and manage large networks of virtual machines.
Its designed for use by companies which offer on-premise cloud or hybrid solutions.
Apache CloudStack supports VMware, KVM and Citrix XenServer amongst others.
It is a turnkey solution which includes compute orchestration, Network as a Service, account management, open API and resource accounting.
Users manage their cloud through a user-friendly interface.
This gives users access to command line tools and/or RESTful API.
Users utilize all compute, networking, software and storage resources from the API.
CloudStacks API is compatible with AWS EC2 and S3.
This is a handy feature for those who wish to deploy hybrid clouds.
The platform controls storage for instances running on hypervisors (primary storage) as well as templates, snapshots and ISO images (secondary storage).
Users have noted that CloudStack is not entirely customizable compared to other open source providers.
Image Credit: Cloudcraft Cloudcraft's magic includes architecture diagrams and a straight forward dashboard Free tier Optimized for AWS Drag and drop interface Cloudcraft users can design and visualize professional architecture diagrams.
The platform is optimized for Amazon Web Services.
This means that users can create services with key components for EC2, Lambda, RDS, DynamoDB, CloudFront and Route 53 amongst others.
Subscribers can click on each component to view the current cost and configuration.
Users also have easy access to the Amazon web console.
Cloudcraft allow users to collaborate on projects.
You can drag and drop files into diagrams and AWS resources.
User's components stay connected after being imported.
They display more data including health and status information.
The platform creates information about the drawn cloud infrastructure along with data imported.
The Free tier includes a single user, advanced AWS architectures, export, share, cost calculations and the ability to document your design.
The Pro package is $49 per user per month.
This incorporates all the free tier has to offer plus an infinite grid, live AWS sync, unlimited AWS accounts, team collaboration, 2-factor identification and priority support.
The Enterprise package also includes customized support, volume licensing and GovCloud support.
Users need to contact the sales team directly for a quote.
There is also a free trial.
Image Credit: OpenStack (Image: Image Credit: OpenStack) Use OpenStacks FOSS dashboard or API to manage your cloud infrastructure like a pro Supports heterogeneous networks Free and open source Some documentation issues OpenStack is a free and open source software platform for cloud computing.
It is usually deployed as an infrastructure as a service (Iaas).
The software is designed for creating private and public clouds.
Users can control compute, storage and networking resources throughout a datacenter.
This is managed from either a dashboard or through OpenStacks API.
OpenStack Compute (NOVA) is a cloud computing fabric controller which is designed to manage and automate pools of resources.
It works with bare metal configurations, virtual machines and containers.
It integrates with legacy systems and third-party technologies.
OpenStack Identity (Keystone) is a directory of users linked to accessible OpenStack services.
Keystone supports multiple forms of authentication such as password credentials and web service logins.
OpenStack works with many open source technologies.
This makes it suitable for heterogeneous networks.
The platform can automate all important processes such as workload provisioning, application lifecycle, networking, storage and container infrastructure.
Some reviewers have complained that OpenStack documentation is not very comprehensible.
Image Credit: Now ServiceNow bespoke dashboard shows each user only the information they need Personalized dashboard Automated processes No API ServiceNow is a cloud computing company which was founded in 2004.
The solution offers a standard operating approach to hybrid and public clouds.
It is geared towards medium to large businesses.
All user activity is managed through the Cloud User Portal.
Users can access information on cost, quota, usage and health of their resources from here.
They can also order new services, send requests and monitor incidents affecting resources.
ServiceNow Cloud Management provides on-demand access to multi-cloud resources which is fully automated.
The portal creates dashboards for every employee such as the cloud administrator, designer and operator.
The platform encodes organization governance policies.
This ensures that the correct level of controls are applied in resource placement, resource selection and naming convention.
Users need to contact ServiceNow directly for more information and a quote.
Image Credit: ManageEngine Use ManageEngines slew of monitoring tools to keep your cloud apps running at peak effieciency Monitors 100 performance indicators Personalized demo Relatively expensive ManageEngine is an asset management tool.
It was released in 2007.
The Application Manager offers a single integrated performance monitoring tool.
Users can manage datacenters, applications, databases and systems.
It is geared towards small to medium sized companies.
Users can monitor end user, web servers, virtual systems and cloud resources.
The platform can scale up to 500 applications.
Users can view relationships between applications and databases using the application discovery and dependency-mapping tools.
This information updates as the application changes.
The Applications Manager also allows users to track response times, view the performance of code segments, SQL statements and detect slow transactions.
Users can track over 100 key performance indicators of your apps such as memory utilization, resource availability and response time.
Users can request a personalized demo through their website.
Potential subscribers need to contact ManageEngine for more information and to get started.
Other cloud management software to consider AppFormix is an application management and cloud orchestration platform that aims to simplify operations and make them more effective through visualization of both virtual and physical environments.
Users are able to monitor performance baselines to ensure performance optimization through real-time monitoring using the Junos Telemetry Interface and OpenConfig.
Cloud Lifecycle Management by BMC provides automated provisioning, governance, and management of secure cloud services.
The platform provides self-service access to deploy applications tacks across multiple cloud environments.
The entire system is intended to be simple to set up, with easy streamlining to run applications in either a test or production environment.
MultiCloud provides a dashboard through a web application for managing files across multiple clouds.
MultiCloud offers a directory tree that works like Windows Explorer, making it easy to transfer files into different locations.
You can also sync different clouds and leave the process to run automatically.
There's a Freeware plan available, and a Premium one with more features that costs $9.90 per month.
DivvyCloud offers a product more focused on managing security, compliance, and governance in cloud environments.
It does this through a single interface which allows management and active policy enforcement over multiple clouds, whether public or private, and is compatible with AWS, Azure, Google, Alibaba, and Kubernetes, among others.
Red Hat Cloudforms uses open source technology to provide management tools for virtual and private cloud infrastructure, which allows for automation of standard processes, visualization for analysis, compliance control and user self-service abilities.
It also aims to make it easier to manage diverse IT infrastructure with a focus on virtualization, along with deploying containers in the cloud to maximize efficiency.
We finally got a glimpse of Respawn Entertainment's Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, thanks to premature listings by Amazon.
Jedi: Fallen Order may not be scheduled for an official reveal until April 13, but that didn't stop Amazon posting listings for the game's teaser poster and even a t-shirt.
The listings have since been removed but not before Twitter user Wario64 spotted them and posted the artwork for the internet to ogle.
You can check the tweet out below: "This official Jedi Fallen Order teaser poster has just been revealed at Star Wars Celebration Chicago and the tee shirt is now available, hot off the press, right here on Amazon!"
https://t.co/86r3A1yFtJ11 April 2019 What's it all mean?
While it's not exactly an in-depth first look, the leaked artwork does confirm you'll be playing as a Padawan Jedi - although it's hard to determine what they look like as the image shows the character from behind.
However, your Padawan is wielding a blue lightsaber which is an indicator that you'll be a Jedi Guardian like Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi - who predominantly use the Force physically.
Whether you'll get an option to choose your class hasn't been confirmed yet.
In addition, the poster shows a crashed Star Destroyer in the background and a small scanning droid accompanying your character.
We can only assume that means you'll be spending some time scavenging the ruins of the Republic with the help of a mischievous little friend, in the vein of C-3P0 or R2D2 - well, we hope.
Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order will be officially revealed on April 13, so we don't have long to wait to find out the full details...
Augmented (AR) and virtual reality (VR) technologies have passed the zenith of the hype cycle and are slowly coming back down to earth.
Yet this doesnt mean that they have failed to catch on.
While were still some way off the immersive virtual worlds of fantasy stories like Ready Player One, mixed and virtual reality is going mainstream.
You dont need an expensive headset or room-scale tech to experience VR and AR, collectively known as cross reality (XR).
Consumers are also accessing immersive reality experiences through their web browsers.
The technology has become an important part of many sectors, particularly for training purposes in industry and construction.
Theres clear demand for these immersive experiences; 50 per cent of companies not currently using the technology will start experimenting with it in the next 2-3 years, and 82 per cent of adopters say the benefits are meeting or exceeding expectations.
Immersive experiences will be the next driving force in customer experience.
When a consumer tries to buy a house they may enjoy a VR tour or an AR view of different furniture in the space.
Fashion retailers are already offering customers AR projections of how clothes will look on them.
Products will become more real for consumers, and the concept of try before you buy will take on a whole new meaning.
Data difficulties However, further and more widespread XR adoption faces a major obstacle in the present; a lack of suitable IT infrastructure.
5G networks, already being trialed by EE and Vodafone, will be instrumental in delivering these immersive experiences to customers, but the applications still need to be stored somewhere.
While they differ in scale, XR experiences are digital worlds in themselves.
Many are even layered on top of our own real world, emulating its complexity.
These services require an immense amount of data to operate, something that traditional data centres will struggle to contain.
The challenge is only magnified if user interaction and contributions are encouraged.
As users add to this digital world, the amount of data stored increases exponentially.
Brands will need environments that can scale with these growing mountains of data.
Whats more, XR experiences need to be low-latency; a user wont wait around for the information they need to load.
The magic of an AR app like WallaMe is its immediacy; messages written by the WallaMe community and hidden in the world are delivered in near real-time.
If a user had to wait while the service accessed their geo-location information and hunted across several siloed databases for the content they wanted to see, the novelty would quickly wear off.
To some extent, customers will wait for the content they want if they have something to distract them.
Think of the last time you reached for your phone while waiting for a webpage to load or during a broadband delay.
However, when all the user can see is a loading screen you cant hope to hold their attention for long.
XR has the potential to transform customer interaction, but the experience will be compromised as long as it rests upon legacy physical infrastructures.
Image Credit: Pixabay (Image: Image Credit: Pixabay) Virtual reality needs virtual servers The front-end, mass XR customer experiences of the future will be underpinned by high-capacity cloud-native apps.
These are applications developed specifically for the cloud, fully utilising its flexibility and power.
Applications, data and memory can all be stored in cloud environments, ready to be streamed to customers on-demand through tomorrows 5G networks.
The cloud allows businesses to scale infinitely with demand.
As XR applications grow in popularity, companies will need more storage space for both their applications and the valuable data personal and behavioural information that customers share with them.
In a physical environment, you would need to continuously purchase more physical infrastructure to keep pace, but in the cloud it is as easy as purchasing another virtual instance.
When demand begins to dip again this instance can be switched off, ensuring the company is not paying for capacity it no longer needs.
Cloud-native technologies give companies the ability to deploy innovations and service updates in an uninterruptable continuous cycle, and at a hyper-scale capacity.
For more complex immersive services, such as VR games, this is crucial.
Users expect constant updates in order to stay engaged, and companies will need to add new features all the time to ensure XR apps reflect their changing businesses.
Cloud-native apps deliver a constantly fresh, frictionless, low-latency experience for users, vital for XR applications.
Immersive XR experiences will arrive sooner than you might expect.
Technological change is accelerating rapidly, and 2019 will be the year that the technology needed to make this a reality is perfected, aiming for ubiquity by the early 2020s.
The technology already exists, the task now is to go about commoditising it.
Cloud-native philosophies and 5G will make AR and VR customer experiences truly viable.
Cloud is the key to making XR affordable for businesses and verisimilar enough to satisfy customers.
Ajmal Mahmood, Customer Contact Propositions Lead at KCOM
Remember that Intels Core i9-9990XE, a monster 14-core processor capable of hitting 5GHz across those many cores, was only supposed to be sold by private auction, and not at retail?
Well, a German retailer is now flogging this powerful CPU online as a standalone product.
Caseking has stock of the Core i9-9990XE and you can grab one of the chips for the bargain price of 2,999 (around 2,600, $3,400, or AU$4,700).
Come on you didnt think it would be cheap, now, did you?
Previously at the aforementioned secret auctions the processor has apparently sold for something like $2,300 (around 1,760, AU$3,200), at least in one reported case.
Note that Caseking is just selling the bare chip, as opposed to a boxed processor with an included cooler and other bits and bobs, which you would normally get when buying an Intel CPU at retail.
There are far more affordable chips on our list of best processors Check out AMDs first 7nm Ryzen 3rd Generation CPUs Building a gaming PC?
Heres a step-by-step guide The Core i9-9990XE runs at a base clock of 4GHz with Turbo across all 14-cores to 5GHz, plus you get single-core boost to 5.1GHz.
It is an extremely nippy Skylake-X offering which is unlocked so it can be overclocked to achieve even better performance (particularly with a top-end cooling solution, of course).
We heard previously, from a firm that bought the 9990XE at auction, that the chip managed to rack up a score of 3,732 in the Cinebench multi-core test, which is slightly faster than the 3,640 points Intels Core i9-9980XE racked up in our testing (this is only one benchmark, though).
The latter is the step-down model in Intels Skylake-X range, which has more cores at 18, but a slower clock speed at 3GHz base with boost to 4.4GHz (4.5GHz single-core).
Paying a premium Doubtless the extra clock speed could be worthwhile if you want the absolute fastest Skylake-X model, but you do pay a premium for it the 9980XE retails for about 1,850 (around $2,400, AU$3,400) in the UK, so its almost 30% cheaper than the 9990XE.
The Core i9-9990XE also runs hot nearly all of the time, by all accounts, which isnt exactly surprising given how hard Intel is pushing the clocks over this many cores (the processor has a TDP of 255W, compared to 165W for the 9980XE, so it gulps over 50% more power).
Still, there will no doubt be enthusiast PC builders with no shortage of cash who fancy building a rig around a very, very fast and still pretty exclusive CPU, to show off if nothing else.
Caseking doesnt indicate how much stock its carrying, but the processors are still available to purchase at the time of writing.
The German retailer is also selling the King Mod CKPC-843 super-high-end PC designed for performance gaming and streaming, which is actually two-machines-in-one, the primary system being built around the 9990XE.
Its priced more like a car than a PC, though, at 13,000 (around 11,200, $14,700, or AU$20,500).
You'll need one of the best graphics cards to go with this storming CPU Via Tom's Hardware
The demand for tablets might have dipped over the years, but sometimes, a smartphone just isn't enough.
There are several tablets in the market- both budget and expensive- so you can easily get best 4G tablets under Rs 15,000.
In this list, we have picked some of the most affordable and easily usable tablets out there.
They are fit for a number of tasks, so you can find one that fits your requirement.
Samsung Galaxy Tab A Samsung Galaxy Tab A Weight: 320g | Dimensions: 208.40 x 137.90 x 7.50mm | OS: Android 5.0 Lollipop | Screen size: 8.0-inch | Resolution: 1024x768 pixels | CPU: 1.4GHz Quad-Core | RAM: 2GB | Storage: 16GB/128GB | Battery: 5,000mAh | Rear camera: 5MP | Front camera: 2MP Longer Battery Life Larger Display Storage Android 5.0 Lollipop The Samsung Galaxy Tab A is ideal if you're looking to consume content on a screen larger than a smart phone, but also at a budget price.
The 8-inch display is colourful and vibrant to an extent but don't expect it to match AMOLED standards.
Since this tablet is primarily aimed at content consumption, its 5000mAh battery should allow for long battery life.
Storage is a let-down at 16GB, even allowing for micro-SD expansion.
Though Samsung doesn't specify the processor, a quick look suggests that it's the Snapdragon 430.
Paired with 2G RAM, the tablet manages to get the job done with the bare minimum at its disposal.
It focuses on efficiency rather than on power.
Who should buy: Those looking for a value-for-money option to explore what a tablet can be capable of.
Who shouldn't buy: Those who want a more current version of Android.
Honor Mediapad T3 10 Honor Mediapad T3 10 Weight: 460g | Dimensions: 229.8 x 159.8 x 8mm | OS: Android 7.0 Nougat | Screen size: 9.6-inch | Resolution: 800 x 1280 pixels | CPU: Snapdragon 425 | RAM: 2/3GB | Storage: 16GB/32GB | Battery: 4,800mAh | Rear camera: 5MP | Front camera: 2MP Compact Decent battery life Average camera performance The Huawei MediaPad T3 10 has an aluminium back plate, rounded edges, and it feels great in your hand.
The tablet is powered by the entry-level Qualcomm Snapdragon 425 quad-core processor, which is capable of handling a multitude of tasks easily, including heavy games.
The processor is paired with 2GB RAM and 16GB internal memory.
It runs on Android 7.0 Nougat with the companys own UI on the top.
Considering the price, the tablet offers decent performance and good battery life.
Who should buy: Those looking for a sleek build and easy usability.
It retails for Rs 13,999 on Amazon.
Who should not buy: Those who want the option to expand their storage options.
iBall Slide Elan 4G2 iBall Slide Elan 4G2 Weight: 585g | Dimensions: 10.4 mm thick | OS: Android 6.0 Marshmallow | Screen size: 10.1-inch | Resolution: 1280 x 800 pixels | CPU: ARM Cortex A53 | RAM: 2GB | Storage: 16GB/32GB | Battery: 7,000mAh | Rear camera: 5MP | Front camera: 2MP Big display Sustainable battery life Android 6.0 Marshmallow Storage only expandable up to 64GB On the heavy side iBall has a range of Android tablets in the budget segment.
Prime among them is the Slide Elan 4G2 tablet with a 10.1-inch display accompanied with a longer battery life.
You get a pleasant graphic experience without compromising on power with the 7,000 mAh battery.
The iBall Slide Elan 4G2 runs on a quad-core processor, and has two storage variants: 2GB/16GB, and 3GB/32GB.
Both are expandable via microSD up to 64GB It's disappointing that a tablet with so much potential is still running on Android Marshmallow.
The base variant retails for Rs 12,999 on Amazon, while the 3GB/32GB model costs Rs 14,999. Who should buy: Those who don't want to compromise on visual appeal and battery.
Who should not buy: Those who want the latest version of Android or a lighter tablet.
Samsung Galaxy J Max Samsung Galaxy J Max Weight: 289g | Dimensions: 186.9 x 108.8 x 8.70mm | OS: Android 5.1 Lollipop | Screen size: 7-inch | Resolution: 1280 x 800 pixels | CPU: Quad-core processor | RAM: 1.5GB | Storage: 8GB/200GB | Battery: 4,000mAh | Rear camera: 8MP | Front camera: 2MP Good build quality Super light Effective rear camera Android 5.1 Lollipop 1.5GB RAM Samsungs Galaxy J series of phones and tablets has been all about affordability.
The Galaxy J Max tablet is no different, featuring a 7-inch display and 4G LTE support on a budget.
The Galaxy J Max runs on Android 5.1 Lollipop, which is disappointing.
It's not the most powerful device in this segment, accompanied by a quad-core processor and 1.5GB RAM.
Read our in-depth review here Who should buy: Those who want a smaller display with the option of excess storage.
Who should not buy: Those who want the latest version of Android or a power tablet.
Lenovo Tab 4 8 Lenovo Tab 4 8 CPU: 1.4GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 425 | Screen size: 8-inch | Resolution: 1280x800 pixels | RAM: 2GB | Storage: 16GB, expandable up to 128GB | Rear camera: 5MP | Front camera: 2MP | Battery: 4850mAh | OS: Android 7.0 Nougat Good storage Good battery life Impressive performance Still runs on Android Nougat Unimpressive camera performance The Lenovo Tab 4 8 is a good option for those who want a well-performing phablet without breaking the bank.
If you're not a budding photographer, or even too bothered about camera specs, you could take a look at this one.
The impressive battery life and comfortable design ensures that you can use it for hours on end, and the full HD LCD display, while making the colours a little jarring at first, is good enough for the price.
The camera performance is a let-down, as well as the OS, but if a budget phablet with good performance and a long-lasting battery is your goal, the Lenovo Tab 4 8 is worth a look.
Whats better than a free game?
Pretty much nothing.
Except when its terrible and youve wasted time on downloading and playing it.
Fortunately, there are loads of fantastic free games for Android and we list the very best here.
Whether youre into word games, endless runners, platformers or puzzles, theres something here for you.
Click through to the next pages to see each category or read on below for our pick of the week.
And check back weekly for our latest pick.
Free Android game of the week: Typochondria Typochondria is the ideal word game for anyone who gets miffed on spotting a terrible spelling mistake when reading a book or article.
Your beady eye is pitted against the clock, with you tapping typos within the paragraphs of a crime novel.
It proves surprisingly fun and nerve-racking when youre down to your final seconds and just cant find a misspelling.
If that all sounds a bit too stressful, theres a Zen mode for when you want to relax and play endlessly, without any risk.
Theres a tough challenge mode, too, which tasks you with finding how many errors are within a specific page.
IAP lurks, but only to try your hand at other genres, including sci-fi, romance and non-fiction.
Buying any of these inexpensive packs removes the ads.
The best free racing games for Android Our favorite free Android 3D, retro, 2D and on-rails racers.
Beach Buggy Racing 2 Beach Buggy Racing 2 is a high-octane kart racer.
True to form, your dinky vehicle belts along larger-than-life tracks, taking in everything from medieval castles with fire-breathing dragons, to an ancient world full of dinosaurs and gigantic sea creatures you can bounce off.
Naturally, your aim is to get to the checkered flag first, across just two laps.
To do this, you must find shortcuts, and make use of power-ups that can turn opponents into a block of ice, blast them into the heavens, and far more besides.
Sadly, there are no leagues, and Beach Buggy Racing 2 only ever offers you two race choices at any given time.
But the compulsion loop is extremely strong, the upgrade/unlock path reasonable, and the racing action some of the best around on Android.
Disc Drivin 2 Disc Drivin 2 is the turn-based driving game which was presumably created when someone reimagined shuffleboard as Mario Kart and shoved that strange concoction online for web-based multiplayer contests.
The concept of a turn-based racer is bonkers and it shouldnt work, but it really does.
As you flick your little disc about tracks suspended in space, the tension ramps up as you home in on your opponent.
You will learn to master shortcuts, zip past hazards, and also how to make best use of bonus powers afforded to your little disc.
Its absurd to think that one of the best mobile racers on Android is about flicking a coin around a race track, but there we have it.
Miss this one at your peril.
Asphalt 9: Legends Asphalt 9: Legends , like its predecessors, is a decidedly nitro-happy, larger-than-life take on arcade racing.
It has you belt along at insane speeds, regularly soaring into the air, your car spinning and pinwheeling in a manner thatd have your car insurance company angrily tear up your policy documents.
This racer also differentiates itself by streamlining controls to the point you neednt steer.
The car moves on rails, with you swiping between lanes, and timing actions like boosts and drifts.
That might sound reductive, but this doesnt detract from the racing feel, it gives you a keen sense of focus on timing, and theres a manual option if you really want that.
Being an Asphalt game, theres some grind, but this is offset by you being immersed in the most outlandish and eye-dazzling arcade racing on Android.
Asphalt Xtreme: Rally Racing Asphalt Xtreme: Rally Racing takes Asphalt off-road.
It ditches its collection of sports cars and larger-than-life city circuits for jeeps and trucks and an awful lot of mud, dirt, rocks, and grime.
Another thing theres an awful lot of is freemium mechanics.
As is seemingly law for an Asphalt game, exciting racing is sadly gunked up by all manner of timers and IAP gates.
But put that aside and youll find Xtreme an entertainingly daft addition to the series.
Blasting through deserts, canyons and jungles, with your off-roader soaring into the air in a manner thats almost certainly not covered by insurance, never really gets old.
And although the basics loads of nitro; floaty physics; crazy tracks might be familiar, the new environments alone make this one worth a download.
Carmageddon Carmageddon is a blast from the past of PC gaming.
It masquerades as a racer, but often feels like youre hunting prey albeit while encased in a suit of speeding metal.
The games freeform arenas are networks of roads in a dystopian future.
People and cows blithely amble about while deranged drivers smash each other to pieces.
Victories come by way of completing laps, wrecking all your opponents, or mowing down every living thing in the vicinity.
In the 1990s, this was shocking to the point of Carmageddon being banned in some countries.
Today, the lo-fi violence seems quaint.
But the games tongue-in-cheek humor survives, sitting nicely alongside bouncy physics, madcap sort-of-racing, and deranged cops attempting to crush you into oblivion should you cross their path.
Asphalt 8: Airborne Asphalt 8: Airborne is a high-octane racer that gave a cursory glance towards realism.
It then decided against bothering with such a trifling issue, and decided itd much prefer you to pelt along at insane speeds under the power of glorious nitro, which frequently sends your car soaring into the air.
Not one for the simulation crowd, then, but this racer is perfect for everyone else.
The larger-than-life branched courses hyper-real takes on real-world locations are madcap and exciting.
Rather than doing laps around a boring circuit surrounded by gravel traps, you blast through rocket launch sites, and blaze through volcanos.
There are downsides cynical IAPs and timers abound, welding a massive comedy tailfin to this otherwise sleek racers stylings.
But for dizzying speed, mid-air barrel rolls, and loads of laughs, this racer is tough to beat.
Sonic Forces: Speed Battle Sonic Forces: Speed Battle reimagines Sonic The Hedgehog as an into-the-screen lane-based auto-runner.
Which probably sounds a lot like Sonic Dash but here, you battle it out against online opposition.
With trap-laden courses and pick-ups you can regularly grab as you belt along, Speed Battle has hints of Mario Kart about it.
Races are packed with tense moments as you unleash a fireball, in the hope of taking out a distant leader, or have the checkered flag in sight, but know your opponents are only fractions of a second behind.
There is some grind chests with timers; multiple currencies; glacially slow leveling up.
But Speed Battle puts a colorful, entertaining spin on auto-runners thats fun even if you keep your wallet firmly closed.
Data Wing Data Wing has the appearance of a minimal top-down racer, but its far, far more than that.
Thats not to say the racing bit isnt great - because it is.
You guide your little triangular ship around neon courses, scooting across boost pads, and scraping track edges for a bit of extra speed.
But theres something else going on here an underlying narrative where you discover youre, in fact, ferrying bits of data about, all under the eye of an artificially intelligent Mother.
Initially, all seems well, but it soon becomes clear Mother has some electrons loose, not least when you start getting glimpses of a world beyond the silicon.
With perfect touch controls, varied racing levels, a few hours of story, and plenty of replay value, Data Wing would be a bargain for a few dollarpounds.
For free, its absurdly generous.
One Tap Rally This game does for racing what auto-runners do for platform games.
One Tap Rally is controlled with a single finger, pressing on the screen to accelerate and releasing to brake, while your car steers automatically.
The aim is to not hit the sides of the track, because that slows you down.
Win and you move up the rankings, then playing a tougher, faster opponent.
In a neat touch, said opponents are recordings of real-world attempts by other players, ranked by time.
In essence, this is a digital take on slot-racing, then, without the slots.
But the mix of speed and strategy, along with a decent range of tracks, makes you forget about the simplistic controls.
If anything, they become a boon, shifting the focus to learning track layouts and razor-sharp timing.
Top stuff.
Splash Cars In the world of Splash Cars, it appears everyone's a miserable grump apart from you.
Their world is dull and grey, but your magical vehicle brings colour to anything it goes near.
The police aren't happy about this and aim to bring your hue-based shenanigans to a close, by ramming your car into oblivion.
There's also the tiny snag of a petrol tank that runs dry alarmingly quickly.
Splash Cars therefore becomes a fun game of fleeing from the fuzz, zooming past buildings by a hair's breadth, grabbing petrol and coins carelessly left lying about, and trying to hit an amount-painted target before the timer runs out.
Succeed and you go on to bigger and better locations, with increasingly powerful cars.
The history.
The drama.
The Green Jacket.
The players are now on the course for the 2019 Masters Tournament, which represents as always the first golf major on the calendar.
Augusta National is looking as beautiful as ever and even after 18 holes this year's winner is looking almost impossible to predict.
Luckily, it's much easier to get a US Masters live stream and from absolutely anywhere you are in the world - see how to watch for FREE by reading on.
Patrick Reed is the defending champion having last year won his first Masters tournament, but after a first poor round in 2019 it's his fellow Americans that dominate the top of the leaderboard.
83rd Masters Tournament - where and when As it has done since the very first version of the Masters back in 1934, the 72-hole tournament will take place at the glorious Augusta national Golf Club in Georgia, US.
It's on between Thursday April, 11 and Sunday 14.
The first group will head out at 8.30am ET (so 5.30am PT, 1.30pm BST) on Friday for the second round.
Bryson DeChambeau and 2018's stand-out player Brooks Koepka lead the way at -6, with Dustin Johnson and trusty old warhorse Phil Mickelson not far behind.
Only Englishman Ian Poulter breaks things up in the top 5 positions.
Rory McIlroy's rich vein of form has understandably made him most bookmakers' favorite - the Masters is the one major that has so far eluded the 29-year old.
His first round was a roller-coaster and ended at +1.
Canadian Corey Conners is now a dark horse after taking home the Valero Texas Open last weekend.
And then there's four-time winner Tiger Woods... Below, you'll find our quick and easy guide for how to watch a 2019 Masters live stream online from anywhere in the world.
It's extremely easy to do, even if you are away from your home country when it's on and want to tune in to your preferred coverage - it's even FREE in some countries and available to watch free from commercials.
See our guide to the best sports streaming sites in 2019 How to get a Masters live stream from outside your country Try to live stream Masters golf away from your home country and you'll quickly find that your domestic coverage is geo-blocked.
It's frustrating, but not unavoidable.
How to live stream Masters golf for FREE Your initial go-to option for streaming this year's Masters in the US is an absolute gimme.
Simply head to Masters.com, hit the 'Watch' tab and away you go.
As well as having all the live action from all four days of play - with a spotlight on featured holes and groups - it also includes footage from the practise range and as many highlights and interviews as you can handle.
You'll find that the Masters.com live stream is geo-blocked if you try and access it from outside the country.
That's where using a VPN (as explained above) comes in handy, so you can watch it as if you were back in the US.
If it's all the bells and whistles of broadcast-quality coverage you need and you're in the US, the alternative is to watch the coverage on ESPN, CBS or a host of cord-cutting options.
More on which below.
UK and Australian audiences may not have access to that Masters.com stream, but at least you too have some free-to-air coverage to enjoy.
The concluding two rounds are on the UK's BBC - which also means no pesky ad breaks - while in Australia the Nine Network has it all live and for free.
How to watch a Masters live stream in the US ESPN and CBS have the share of the spoils in the US, with the former taking the first two rounds (and par three contest) and CBS with rounds three and four.
Note that you will need a US IP address in order to access the above stations or otherwise you won't be able to access the content from abroad - if you want to do so, you'll have to follow our VPN guidelines above and log in with a VPN , choosing a US server location.
They aren't you're only option though, with all of the top US-based TV streaming services all providing an alternative.
Each one offers a free trial to get you started and has masses of other content and channels for you to enjoy if you subscribe: Hulu with Live TV $40 per month - Hulu with Live TV includes CBS, Fox, NBC and ESPN.
PlayStation Vue From $45 per month and the ideal choice for PS4 owners thanks to its access to the likes of ESPN, NBC, Fox, Disney and other essential networks.
Crank up the price and you can add the likes of Showtime and HBO, too.
DirecTV Now $50 per month - DirecTV Now includes CBS, Fox, NBC, ESPN and for $5 extra you can add the NFL Network.
FuboTV $35 for the first month - FuboTV gives you the first month at a discounted rate but after that the price increases to $45 a month.
The service includes CBS, Fox, NBC and the NFL Network but does not come with ESPN.
YouTubeTV $40 per month - YouTubeTV gives you access to CBS, Fox, NBC and ESPN.
How to watch the 2019 US Masters: live stream options in the UK If you're in the UK and want to revel in the glory of the Masters over the pond, then Sky Sports Golf is unsurprisingly the place to go - with the BBC joining the action for the last two rounds for completely commercial-free coverage.
But if you don't want to bother yourself with a Sky Sports subscription, there is another way.
Now TV may well be a decent fit for you.
It costs 14.99 for a week's worth of access.
And pretty much every streaming device you can think of has a Now app.
If it's Saturday or Sunday that you want to watch the Masters online, then we'd recommend heading over to stream it on TVPlayer.com, which has all the Freeview channels (including BBC One) in one place and a robust, legal stream to watch on.
Out of the UK this weekend?
Then follow our instructions above to get a VPN and tune into your preferred coverage as if you were back in Blighty.
How watch the 2019 US Masters in Australia for FREE!
Great news, Australia.
2019's first major golf tournament is playing on free-to-air television with the Nine Network's Gem channel showing the action.
Your other options is to sign up for the fast-emerging Kayo Sports streaming service, which features no lock-in contracts and gives you access to over 50 other sports including the F1, NRL, FA Cup football, NBA playoffs...the list goes on!
Not only that, but Kayo is boasting three bonus cameras for every round of the golf, providing more ways to watch - so well worth checking out if you're a golf obsessive that wants the best possible Masters live stream coverage.
Kayo Sports Basic Package costs $25 per month and allows users to stream across two devices simultaneously.
Alternatively, the service also offers a Kayo Sports Premium Package, which provides three concurrent streams for $35 per month.
And don't forget that if you're out of Australia this weekend and are still desperate to tune in to one of the above methods of watching the golf, you'll need a VPN to magically transfer your IP address back to a server in Australia.
How to watch the 2019 Masters: live stream in Canada CTV/TSN is the official Canada broadcaster for the US MAsters Tournament and the CTV Go app will let you watch...well, on the go.
It will have thorough live coverage from every round at Augusta.
The recent vote by the EU Parliament has effectively put an end to the open internet.
By a very thin margin, the Parliament voted against any amendments to the proposal, which was a necessary step to fixing or deleting Articles 11 and 13.
They have voted to approve the The European Union Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market (including both Article 11 and 13) which requires the likes of YouTube, Facebook and Twitter to take more responsibility for copyrighted material being shared illegally on their platforms.
Article 13 is the part of the Directive on Copyright that has most people debating.
The article states that online content sharing service providers and right holders shall cooperate in good faith in order to ensure that unauthorised protected works or other subject matter are not available on their services.
Impact on the consumer The Directive could, for example, stop anyone who isnt the official organiser of a sports match from posting any videos or photos of that match.
Will this stop viral sports GIFs and might it even stop people who attended matches from posting photos to social media?
We shall see.
Whilst the Directive does contain an exemption for legitimate private and non-commercial use of press publications by individual users, this is still open to interpretation.
For example, is someone with a huge following on social media, who posts adverts to that audience, a private and non-commercial entity?
If you are somebody that likes sharing links on social platforms will you have to fork out any money.
Maybe not, but time will tell..
Image Credit: Pixabay Are you an active YouTuber?
It would seem that YouTube is by far the most vocal critic of Article 13.
It is making a big effort to promote opposition to the directive among its creators and users.
The company argues that, in its current form, Article 13 could negatively impact hundreds of thousands of creators, artists and others employed in the creative economy.
Are you a video gamer who currently shares their gameplay on video-streaming services such as Twitch or YouTube?
This area is fraught with complex online copyright.
When, for example, a gamer creates a video game video for YouTube, the video itself is a new copyright work owned by the gamer.
However, as it also incorporates copyright works owned by the video game studios, the authorisation of both the gamer and the studio would be required to put it online.
In theory, if Article 13 became law, games studios could tell Twitch and YouTube not to show videos of its games.
Whilst Article 13 does not force companies to filter what users are uploading, some say companies will be left with no choice.
Whilst YouTube already has its Content ID system, which can detect copyright-protected music and videos and block them, developing and implementing this type of filter would be too expensive for small companies or start-ups.
Filters will effectively subject all communications of every European to interception and arbitrary censorship if an algorithm decides their text, pictures, sounds or videos are a match for a known copyrighted work.
You could be looking at a sudden increase in internet censorship.
Article 13 implementation Ultimately of course, all of this depends on how the directive is interpreted by member states when they make it into national law.
But we believe that the EU will almost certainly come to regret taking this decision.
It is yet to be seen how each of the member states will actually implement the laws set out in the Directive but on the whole the EU Copyright Directive requires laws that effectively end the open internet as an open communications medium.
Sites that previously allowed content creators to freely publish content will now be forced to make some very difficult choices: license all content (almost impossible), filter all of the content (expensive and failure-prone), or just shut down.
Sites that used to send traffic to news sources may now need to reconsider, as doing so will require some kind of payment.
Given how much the EU has complained about the likes of Google and Facebook in the past, it has effectively just handed both companies a huge position of power.
Companies of this size can afford this whilst many others cannot.
We believe that these are sad days for a truly open internet.
Overall, the Directive will merely serve to make giant companies even more powerful, whilst taking away from creative folk.
Sebastian Schaub, Founder at Hide.me
Disney has been planning its new streaming service for years to take on Netflix in the online streaming wars and now the entertainment giant has revealed it has an official launch date in the US: November 12, 2019.
The house of Mickey has been teasing us with details of its new streaming platform, called Disney+, for some time now.
But only now have we been given some solid details about the kind of content that'll be available, as well as how much it'll cost you to have a library of Star Wars and The Simpsons on tap.
We don't know everything about Disney+, the UK launch date is still a mystery, but we do know it'll be a Netflix-style video platform, which will host a huge number of Disney-owned and Disney-produced films and shows including titles from Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars.
While Disney has made a pretty penny from licensing out its movies and shows to the likes of Netflix an agreement shortly coming to an end it makes a lot of financial sense to bring its IP together and reduce reliance on rival platforms.
Read on for all the latest news on Disney+ pricing, subscriptions, and what movies and shows will be available on the service when it launches later this year.
Inside Out (Image Credit: Pixar) What is Disney+?
Disney+ will be an all-in-one Disney, Pixar, Marvel, and Star Wars video destination, packing plenty of existing movies and TV shows along with a stack of brand-new content.
Disney has been working on the plan for some time now, acquiring a controlling stake in streaming technology provider BAMTech in 2017 following a first investment the previous year.
BAMTech spun out from Major League Baseball's streaming efforts and now powers platforms like HBO Now and ESPN+, so it knows a little something about on-demand video traffic.
Obviously, Disney has a massive heap of content in its archives: loads of movies, TV series, and cartoons spread across the Disney, Pixar, Star Wars, and Marvel brands.
With Disney's acquisition of Fox now complete, we could also be seeing a host of other franchises like X-Men or Avatar come along to the service.
Disney makes serious money (an estimated $300 million ) putting its films and properties on Netflix and other services, but if Disney+ is attractive enough to pull in millions of paying subscribers, then it could yield potentially much more income.
And it gives Disney a new, exclusive platform for developing new content, whether it's with existing brands or original properties.
The service will launch in the US on November 12, 2019 with an expected (but not yet officially confirmed) UK launch date around the same time or a few months afterwards.
This still gives Disney plenty of time to court creators and develop and produce new shows or at least get the ball rolling.
If you're in Australia, it looks like you'll be getting Disney movies and shows on Stan for the time being.
Star Wars: The Last Jedi (Image Credit: Lucasfilm) Disney+ movies, shows and exclusives Star Wars Disney+ plans to have four to five exclusive TV shows and four to five original movies ready for the late 2019 launch, which means there will be a large amount of fresh content available on day one including every Disney film ever made.
One of most exciting original announcement so far is that of a brand new live-action Star Wars TV series from Jon Favreau (Iron Man, The Jungle Book) who will both write and executive produce the show.
We've been waiting for details about it for what feels like years, but the title has finally been revealed as The Mandalorian.
For those not in the know, Mandalorians are a race (or is it species?)
who live on the planet Mandalore and they're jetpack-toting warriors with a lot of political baggage.
Now unless you've watched Star Wars Rebels, the only Mandalorian you're likely to have met before is Boba Fett.
But the new series will introduce us to a Mandalorian we've never met before and will follow his (or hers?)
adventures throughout the Star Wars universe.
Diego Luna will reprise his Rogue One character in a new TV series for Disney+ (Image Credit: Lucasfilm) Favreau will also be joined by other great directors, including Star Wars alum Dave Filoni, wholl direct the first episode, as well as Bryce Dallas Howard, Taika Waititi (Thor: Ragnarok) and Deborad Chow (Jessica Jones).
It's not the only new Star Wars episodic content that'll be on the service early on, either.
Rogue One's Cassian Andor (played by Diego Luna) will also get his own prequel TV series exploring his life before the events of the 2016 film.
At San Diego Comic-Con 2018, Disney announced that a new, concluding season of animated series Star Wars: The Clone Wars will also be on the service.
We have to imagine that the existing episodes, currently on Netflix, will also join the fray.
Marvel We'll also get an original Marvel series , separate from the myriad shows already on Netflix and other platforms/channels.
There's been rumblings about which Marvel characters might be getting their own shows for some time now, but in April 2019, Disney officially confirmed the characters that'll live on at Disney+ and therefore might have survived Thanos' snap?
Hiddleston-lovers will be happy to hear the first in the new Marvel line-up will be all about Loki, another will follow the story of Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen) and Vision (Paul Bettany), and another will feature the Falcon (Anthony Mackie).
When it comes to old Marvel movie properties, we can expect those to be pulled from Netflix as soon as contracts run out before being moved across to Disney+ when it launches.
In an earnings call with investors, Disney CEO Bob Iger clarified that 2019's Captain Marvel would be the first Disney movie exclusive to the service.
Loki (Image Credit: Walt Disney Studios) (Image: Walt Disney Studios) The Simpsons and the best of the rest Many additional new shows and TV series have been rumored or reported on, including a new Monsters Inc. project and a fresh take on the once-popular High School Musical franchise.
Deadline suggests that projects based on Lady and the Tramp, Don Quixote, Sword and the Stone, and 3 Men and a Baby are in the works, along with other projects titled The Paper Magician, Stargirl, Togo, and Timmy Failure.
Deadline also suggests that two films for the service were already in post-production as of February 2018: Magic Camp from director Mark Waters (starring Adam DeVine and Jeffrey Tambor), and Christmas-themed comedy Noelle from Marc Lawrence (featuring Anna Kendrick and Bill Hader).
That's not to mention the back-catalogue.
One of the biggest announcements is that Disney+ will also be the official home of every episode of The Simpsons, which is another property Disney acquired when it bought 20th Century Fox.
Little's been said on older content, though we assume there'll be a good share of remastered classics and selected titles from Disney's extensive 95-year history.
There'll also be plenty of television programming from the Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD.
All told, you can expect "thousands of hours" of Disney TV shows and films on the service, including existing content, and that new Disney, Marvel, and Star Wars films will be available to stream at some point following their theatrical releases.
Disney+ subscription and pricing Right now, Disney has only released details about US pricing, where the streaming service will cost $6.99 a month.
We'll update you as soon as news lands about pricing in other regions.
This means it looks like Disney has kept its promise about undercutting Netflix at least for now.
"I can say that our plan on the Disney side is to price this substantially below where Netflix is.
That is in part reflective of the fact that it will have substantially less volume," said Robert Iger , The Walt Disney Company's chairman and CEO.
"It'll have a lot of high quality [content], because of the brands and the franchises that will be on it that we've talked about.
But it'll simply launch with less volume, and the price will reflect that."
Iger also suggested that the price could rise gradually over time as the service expands, which is hardly surprisingNetflix's prices have risen alongside its pivot towards original content.
If you're in the UK, journalist Tom Butler pointed out on Twitter that you can already get some of the content that's planned for Disney+ on the Disney Life app for 5.
But that doesn't include some of the biggest draws of the new streaming platform, like Marvel and Star Wars properties although it does currently have past seasons of The Clone Wars.
Daredevil (Image Credit: Netflix) What will Disney+ be missing?
The Disney streaming service won't have content from outside of the Disney ecosystem, as far as we know.
That might seem obvious enough, but services like Netflix and Hulu have such diverse offerings because of their wide partnerships and licensing deals.
But, of course, Disney has plenty of content to draw from, especially if all Fox content comes onboard as well, but this will still be a very Disney-centric offering.
On top of that, there won't be any R-rated or adult-oriented content on the service.
That stuff will go to Hulu instead, according to a report from Deadline.
Though Disney has now closed its acquisition of Fox, it's unlikely then that the R-rated Deadpool will come to Disney+.
Also, the Marvel TV original series on Netflix won't be crossing over to the new Disney+ service as far as we know.
That means the likes of Daredevil, Luke Cage, and Jessica Jones won't be rebooted on Disney+ in their current iterations.
They've all been cancelled from further seasons, but we're assuming previous seasons will continue to stay on the Netflix platform.
That's not to say Hulu might not pick up these series and run with them, or maybe they'll get a more family-friendly re-imagining for Disney+?
Moana (Image Credit: Disney) We haven't tried the platform ourselves yet, so even though more information is revealed every day, it's hard to make a solid recommendation.
But now details have been revealed about pricing, the early signs are certainly promising.
Disney plans to tap into its estimable vault of franchises to create exclusive and potentially compelling new content, along with creating a single streaming service for watching all of the latest and greatest movies and TV shows from across the Disney creative ecosystem.
It'll have less content than Netflix, but the price is lower and Disney+ may prove more appealing as an add-on to your current subscriptions, rather than a full-on replacement for Netflix or Hulu.
The Disney streaming service won't be as comprehensive or wide-ranging as some rivals, but Disney, Star Wars, and Marvel fans might have trouble resisting some of the original shows and movies coming down the pipeline.
We're certainly excited to see what Disney+ has in mind for the live-action Star Wars series, above all, but other projects sound compelling as well.
O2 is to provide spectrum to a government-funded project investigating 5G-enabled connected and autonomous vehicle (CAV) technologies.
The mobile operator will make 2.3GHz and 3.4GHz airwaves available to AutoAir, which is conducting testing at the Millbrook Proving Ground in Bedfordshire.
The spectrum will support an on-site network comprising 59 sites and 89 small cells operated by UK wireless provider DenseAir.
As part of the deal, this infrastructure will be integrated into O2s wider 5G network which will launch in Belfast, Cardiff, Edinburgh and London.
Connected car 5G The aim of AutoAir is to see how the ultra-low latency and high capacity afforded by 5G networks can be used for applications such as enhanced road safety and traffic flow.
Earlier this year, test saw a McLaren sports car transmit 4K video in real time over a 1Gbps connection whilst driving at 160mph.
5G will play a key role in how our country develops over the next few years, declared Brendan OReilly, O2 CTO.
If implemented properly, 5G has the potential to drive economic growth, create jobs and enable a new host of technologies including self-driving vehicles.
Thats why were delighted to be supporting the trial activity at Millbrook, alongside ambitious partners who share our vision of building a truly Mobile Britain.
AutoAir is one of several 5G projects to have received funding from the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, each investigating different use cases.
DCMS has supplied 1.8 million, bringing the total government funding to 6 million, with industry contributing 4.5 million.
O2s integration and commercialisation of the 5G network at Millbrook to support both public and private mobile use cases is a world first and will be a reference deployment for the UK mobile industry as it moves to support for 5G applications for Industry 4.0, large enterprise and Government, said Paul Senior, CEo of Dense Air and chief strategy officer of Airspan Networks.
The standards for connected car applications are a contentious issue.
The EU wants to approve Wi-Fi first, believing that its wide availability will make the roads safer more quickly than 5G, which will take time to roll out.
However, the mobile industry argues that Wi-Fi is an outdated technology and fears that approving wireless before 5G will lead to compatibility issues.
It hasn't even been two months since Tesla unveiled the long-awaited $35,000 Model 3, but it's already been removed from the online configurator, relegating it to off-menu ordering, like a weird Jamba Juice smoothie.
Late Thursday evening, Tesla published a blog post explaining a raft of changes it just made to the Model 3 lineup.
The $35,000 Standard Range model -- the one with cloth seats where black is the only free color -- has been removed from Tesla's site, meaning it's only available to order via phone or a trip to an actual Tesla store.
The same goes for the Model 3 Long Range in rear-wheel-drive configuration.
Don't worry, it gets more confusing from there.
The Model 3 Standard Range is now a Standard Range Plus model with software disabling a number of features, including music streaming, navigation and heated seats.
It also sports the Standard Range Plus' battery, rated at 240 miles, but 10% of that is software-locked.
Thus, the latest iteration of $35,000 Model 3 loses its standard heated seats (sort of) and a couple miles of range (90% of 240 is 216, compared to its original estimated range of 220 miles).
Buyers do have the option to unlock those features at a later date, though, essentially upgrading the car from Standard Range to Standard Range Plus.
Enlarge Image Nick Miotke/Roadshow The Model 3 Standard Range is the only Model 3 variant to escape a price hike, as well.
Tesla announced that Autopilot will now be standard on all Tesla vehicles (with the exception of the $35,000 car).
However, it comes at a bit of a discount -- on the Model 3 range, Autopilot used to be a $3,000 option, but its mandatory inclusion only adds $2,000 to the car's bottom line.
Tesla also announced the start of a Model 3 leasing program in the US.
The lease runs for 36 months, and lessees can choose from three annual mileage allotments -- 10,000, 12,000 or 15,000 miles per year.
All Model 3 configurations are available, according to Tesla, and the price obviously varies with each.
The minimum deposit is $3,000, but the payment due at signing will vary from $4,199 to $4,584 depending on the variant.
Monthly payments vary from a little over $500 for the Model 3 Standard Range Plus to $889 for the Model 3 Performance.
Here's where the leasing gets weird.
Most car leases give you the option to buy the car outright at the end of the lease period, but not Tesla.
According to the automaker's blog post, it will collect all these leased cars at the end of their terms for future use in Tesla's ride-hailing network.
Google Everyone loves smart speakers, but do you really need one that has a screen?
Especially if it means spending $150 or more?
Hold that thought.
For a limited time, and while supplies last, MassGenie has the Google Home Hub for $76.46.
It normally sells for $149, and for the past few weeks it's been $80.
This is officially the lowest price yet.
To get the deal, you'll need a MassGenie account, and you'll need to click the orange Power Deal button.
The Home Hub takes the Google Home smart speaker and adds a 7-inch touchscreen.
That opens the door to things like guided recipes, song lyrics, appointment calendars and so on -- all the same stuff your phone or tablet can do, but on something that's a permanent fixture in, say, your kitchen.
Read CNET's Google Home Hub review to learn more.
Verdict: Top marks, even if the audio quality doesn't quite rival some screenless smart speakers.
Likewise, over at Best Buy, it has an impressive 4.6-star review average from over 2,300 buyers.
At $150, this might have seemed a little extravagant.
But at $76?
Yes, please!
Read more: The first 9 things you should do with your Google Home Hub Originally published on March 29.
Update, April 12: Republished as deal hit a lower price.
Now playing: Watch this: Google Home Hub comes up big as a smart home control... CNET's Cheapskate scours the web for great deals on PCs, phones, gadgets and much more.
Note that CNET may get a share of revenue from the sale of the products featured on this page.
Questions about the Cheapskate blog?
Find the answers on our FAQ page.
Find more great buys on the CNET Deals page and follow the Cheapskate on Facebook and Twitter!
Suaoki Just yesterday, the power went out in my house -- for five hours.
It happens.
A mobile charger can keep your phone alive and well, but it probably makes sense to keep something a little more substantial on hand.
Like this: For a limited time, and while supplies last, you can get the Suaoki Portable 150-watt Power Station with dual 110-volt AC outlets for $84.49.
That's after applying promo code 8DAOWFIP at checkout.
It normally runs $126.
Just to be clear, this is not a generator, Suaoki's product description notwithstanding.
It's a lunchbox-style battery capable of running, among other things, two small appliances.
To that end, you'll find a three-prong AC outlet and, below that, a two-pronger.
You could use it to power, say, a laptop, a fan or even a CPAP machine (though not for an entire night).
It also has four USB ports -- one of them QuickCharge 3.0-compatible for phones that support fast-charge -- and four DC outputs, the latter good for powering things that would normally run on a car's cigarette lighter.
(There's an adapter included.)
On top of all that you get a dual-LED flashlight.
Also of note: Suaoki backs this with an 18-month warranty.
Over 350 buyers rated it 4.1 stars out of 5, and those reviews mostly pass muster, according to both Fakespot and ReviewMeta.
There are lots of products like this on Amazon, some of them capable of storing or producing more power.
But most of them cost more as well.
If you want a versatile backup battery for well under $100, this is worth a look.
Originally published on Nov. 13, 2018.
Updated, April 12, 2019: Republished as deal is available again.
CNET's Cheapskate scours the web for great deals on PCs, phones, gadgets and much more.
Note that CNET may get a share of revenue from the sale of the products featured on this page.
Questions about the Cheapskate blog?
Find the answers on our FAQ page.
Find more great buys on the CNET Deals page and follow the Cheapskate on Facebook and Twitter!
Jessica Dolcourt/CNET The White House will unveil a new 5G push to position the US ahead of global rivals in the race to deploy the next-generation wireless technology.
At a White House event on Friday, President Donald Trump and Federal Communications Chairman Ajit Pai will announce new airwaves auctions and plans to spend $20.4 billion over 10 years on rural broadband.
The FCC will auction off three segments of millimeter-wave spectrum -- which can offer insane data speeds but has limited range -- for commercial use..
The auction is scheduled for December, said FCC Chairman Ajit Pai on a conference call with reporters ahead of the White House event.
He said the FCC plans to auction off 3,400 MHz of spectrum in three different high-frequency bands.
"This will be the largest spectrum auction in American history," he said.
Pai went onto say that this auction, along with others planned for the future, are putting the US on a good path.
"The U.S. is well positioned to take a lead in 5G," he said.
The FCC is also announcing the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund.
The agency plans to reallocate $20.4 billion from its Universal Service Fund over the next 10 years to subsidize eligible companies to build out broadband infrastructure in underserved areas.
The money will be allocated to internet service providers that can provide a minimum of 25 gigabit per second downloads in areas that are currently in need of connectivity, Pai said.
He added that the new infrastructure will also help bring 5G to these rural areas.
"There are a number of startups that are working on millimeter wave technology to bring 5G to rural America," he said on the call.
The FCC already spends on average about $4 billion a year to subsidize rural broadband deployments and yet 19 million Americans, most of whom live in hard to reach places, still lack high speed internet access.
This new injection of funding is expected to connect about four million more Americans to rural broadband, according to the FCC.
Now playing: Watch this: We tested Verizon's new 5G network The race to 5G 5G, which refers to the fifth generation of cellular technology, is the next big thing in wireless technology.
It's been hailed as the foundation for other big trends like self-driving cars and streaming virtual reality.
The White House's announcement comes as carriers like AT&T and Verizon have begun rolling out their 5G service in select cities.
Sprint and T-Mobile are also expected to begin rollouts this year of their 5G service.
Other countries, like China, Korea and Japan are also racing to deploy 5G, creating a new kind of technological arms race.
The FCC has already taken steps to make more spectrum available to wireless carriers deploying the technology.
In January, it concluded its first auction of high frequency millimeter spectrum in the 28GHz band.
The auction raised a total of more than $702 million in gross bids.
A total of 2,965 28GHz licenses were won.
It's currently still auctioning off spectrum in the 24GHz band.
In addition to the spectrum auction announced Friday, Pai told reporters the agency is also working to free up so-called midband spectrum that's also crucial for building out 5G networks.
"Rest assured that we are making a priority of [making available] all bands for 5G," he said The White House and 5G 5G has been on the mind of White House officials for some time.
In October, the Administration announced it was developing a plan to "position the United States to lead in next generation wireless networks for years to come."
Under this plan, the Secretary of Commerce was tasked with working across agencies to ensure that there is sufficient spectrum to ferry wireless data.
Getting more spectrum in the hands of carriers -- particularly rural carriers -- was seen as a critical component of the strategy.
But that wasn't the first time President Trump had been linked to 5G.
In January 2018, White House plans for a national 5G network leaked out.
FCC officials and other experts largely dismissed the idea.
Rumors of a nationalized wholesale 5G network bubbled up again last month as reported by Politico.
When asked about these rumors, Pai once again dismissed the notion of a wholesale 5G network built and operated by the US government stating that the "lesson from 4G" was that American leadership in wireless thrived because of the "market" based approach to building and maintaining networks.
But in spite of the White House's efforts to push for more spectrum for 5G and to align other policies to encourage 5G deployment, Trump's tariffs on Chinese goods and pressure on European allies to rip out and ban 5G equipment from Chinese equipment maker Huawei over security concerns, have also threatened the speedy roll out of the technology, according to critics.
"So far, this Administration's interventions on 5G have done more harm than good," Jessica Rosenworcel, one of two Democrats serving on the FCC, said in a statemnet.
"From imposing tariffs on 5G equipment to alienating allies on 5G security to falling behind the rest of the world on critical mid-band spectrum, the White House has yet to offer a workable plan for US leadership."
Originally published April 12 at 5:41 a.m. PT.
Update 6:01 a.m. PT: Adds more details on White House's 5G push.
7:05 a.m: Adds information from conference with FCC Chairman Ajit Pai.
7:55 a.m.: Adds background on 5G, comments from Chairman Pai and comments from FCC Com.
Jessica Rosenworcel.
Enlarge Image Volkswagen At the New York Auto Show, Volkswagen is showing a modified version of its Atlas intended to show how what VW calls "trail seekers" might use the crossover for camping, hiking, or mountain biking.
Called the Atlas Basecamp, the concept is ideal "whether you are taking on a series of challenging single-tracks with your favorite mountain bike or enjoying a relaxing evening under the night sky," Alex Earle, exterior design manager at the Volkswagen Design Center in California, said in a statement.
The concept is based upon a Volkswagen Atlas SEL that's dolled up in matte-finish black-and-gray paintwork with various orange accents and "Basecamp" badges.
Concept wheels from tuning company fifteen52 wear upsized all-terrain tires, new H&R springs raise the Atlas by 1.5 inches and the crossover gets some extra visual punch from a new body kit by Air Design.
To accommodate all those adventures in the great outdoors, the Atlas Basecamp concept also has front and rear LED light bars and a Front Runner Slim Line II rack on the roof.
What's even more interesting about the concept is that it's towing a "compact expedition" Hive EX trailer.
The trailer has the same wheel-and-tire setup as the Atlas tow vehicle, and features mountain-bike racks on the roof.
It also can serve as a mobile basecamp for all those aforementioned adventures, as the trailer contains a queen-sized bed, a kitchenette with a stove and sink, a portable toilet, a hot-water shower and even a refrigerator.
While the Volkswagen Atlas Basecamp is not going into production, it should stoke the imagination of adventurous folks who might want to use the crossover for outdoor activities.
After appearing at the New York show, the concept will also be shown at this year's SEMA show in Las Vegas in November.
We cover it all, click your favorite
Epson Big TVs have gotten awfully cheap of late -- you can still get a 65-inch TCL 4-Series Roku for $500, for example -- but if you want a seriously big picture, you'll need a projector.
Like this one: For a limited time, and while supplies last, Best Buy has the refurbished Epson PowerLite Home Cinema 1060 projector for $399.99 shipped (plus tax).
It sells new for $550.
Hang on... a refurbished projector?
That sounds like a bad plan.
What if the expensive-to-replace bulb gives out on day 91?
Surprise: This is backed by a two-year Epson warranty, same as new PowerLites.
I couldn't help wondering if this was an error on Best Buy's product page, but if you look at Epson's own Clearance Center page, you'll see that all the refurbished items there carry a full warranty.
Nice!
So, the projector itself.
The PowerLite 1060 is a full-HD (that is, 1080p) model that uses 3LCD technology, which promises higher color light output than single-chip DLP projectors, while also avoiding the rainbow effect sometimes produced by the latter.
It comes with two HDMI inputs and built-in speakers, so you could set this up just about anywhere for an impromptu movie and gaming night.
Now for the bad news: The PowerLite 1060 has no audio-out option, which is kind of ludicrous.
That means there's no easy way to pipe the sound to, say, a sound bar.
J-Tech Digital But there is a way.
From what I've learned, an inexpensive HDMI audio extractor (like this one, about $26) will give you both analog and digital outputs for connecting to external sound systems.
In fact, this exact projector is called out in one of the customer reviews for this extractor: "Works wonderful," according to the customer.
Despite that issue, the user reviews for the PowerLite 1060 are overwhelmingly positive: 4.6 stars at Best Buy and 4.2 stars at Amazon.
If you've always wanted to watch sports and movies and play videogames on a ginormous HD screen, it's rarely been this affordable.
Would a 4K projector be even better?
Sure, but it'll be a while before you see one anywhere near this price.
Read more: The best home theater projectors for 2019 Now playing: Watch this: Six things to know about home theater projectors Record Store Day turntable deal Tomorrow is Record Store Day.
That means if you're into vinyl, head to your nearest record shop (yeah, they're still a thing) for deals and discounts.
Fluance But start here: For a limited time, you can get the Fluance RT80 Turntable for $149.96 shipped with promo code RT80RSD.
The RT80 features a preamp (meaning you can just plug your favorite speakers right into it), a diamond stylus and other things that are probably meaningful to audiophiles.
I'm not one of them, but the turntable has a 4.5-star review average from 165 buyers -- so apparently it's pretty good!
CNET's Cheapskate scours the web for great deals on PCs, phones, gadgets and much more.
Note that CNET may get a share of revenue from the sale of the products featured on this page.
Questions about the Cheapskate blog?
Find the answers on our FAQ page.
Find more great buys on the CNET Deals page and follow the Cheapskate on Facebook and Twitter!
Jack Taylor / Getty Images Julian Assange is in British custody after losing asylum at the Ecuadorian embassy in London on Thursday.
The 47-year-old founder of WikiLeaks made a name for himself by releasing secret government documents from the US and around the world.
Those included diplomatic cables, official records, campaign emails and documents detailing government hacking tools.
Styling himself as an anti-secrecy activist, Assange created WikiLeaks, an online portal, to share documents he said would hold powerful governments accountable.
In some cases, news outlets re-promoted documents obtained by Wikileaks, such as when The New York Times created an archive of US diplomatic cables in 2010.
After being accused of rape in 2010, Assange fled to the Ecuadorian Embassy where he stayed from 2012 until his arrest Thursday.
During that time, Assange continued running WikiLeaks and defending his work and methods.
Current Wikileaks editor Kristinn Hrafnsson condemned the arrest of Assange on Thursday.
"This, of course, is a gross violation of international treaties and an outrageous behavior in all respects," Hrafnsson told NPR.
"A country simply shouldn't revoke the status of [asylum] when it has been granted in the first place."
Here's everything you need to know about the outspoken and enigmatic founder of WikiLeaks: Who is Julian Assange?
Assange is from Australia.
He has said that before WikiLeaks, he worked as a computer programmer and as an activist.
He avoids the label "hacker."
In 2006, Assange helped found WikiLeaks.
During its early years, he toured the world giving lectures and interviews, fashioning himself as the face of the organization.
His story was turned into the 2013 film The Fifth Estate, with Benedict Cumberbatch portraying Assange.
Assange founded WikiLeaks with the goal of vetting and publishing primary source, restricted documents.
By 2016, WikiLeaks said it had released more than 10 million documents.
It's possible the organization has still more documents in its possession.
What is WikiLeaks known for?
Wikileaks captured worldwide attention in 2010, when it released a video of a US military helicopter gunning down Reuters journalists Namir Noor-Eldeen and Saeed Chmagh, along with other civilians, in Iraq in 2007.
An outside source revealed that the leak came from former US Army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning.
In 2016, WikiLeaks published emails that purportedly came from campaign staffers for US presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, as well as the text of paid speeches she made to employees of Goldman Sachs.
US intelligence officials later said the information was stolen by Russian hackers.
Assange and WikiLeaks have declined to identify the source of their documents.
In 2017, WikiLeaks published thousands of documents it said detailed CIA hacking techniques for targeting internet-connected devices, such as certain televisions, as well as phones and computers.
What crimes has Assange been accused of?
Seven years ago, Assange sought asylum in the Ecuadorian embassy in London to avoid extradition to Sweden, where he was accused of rape.
Assange wasn't formally charged and he's denied the allegation.
The investigation against him has since been dropped, as the of statute of limitations ran out on some of the allegations.
He has been holed up in the embassy since June 19, 2012.
However, Assange is still charged with violating the conditions of his bail in the UK.
The country is involved because a British court agreed to honor Sweden's request for Assange's extradition in 2011.
When Assange fled to the Ecuadorian embassy, the UK charged him with jumping bail.
In November, a federal prosecutor in the US mentioned unspecified charges against Assange in an unrelated court filing.
On Thursday, it was revealed that the US government had filed a single charge against Assange for conspiracy to hack a government computer.
It was based on conversations with Manning on hacking a password for a government system.
Why has Assange been in the embassy for 7 years?
The UK has referred to Assange's confinement at the embassy as a self-imposed exile.
During his stay in the embassy, Assange claimed repeatedly that if he was arrested in the UK or extradited to Sweden, he would then immediately be extradited to the US.
Until recently, there were no public charges filed against Assange in the US, but it was possible there were charges filed under seal.
In a tweet posted to the WikiLeaks Twitter account on Jan. 12, 2017, Assange offered to agree to extradition to the US if President Barack Obama released Manning, who was serving a 35-year sentence for leaking thousands of US Army classified documents.
Five days later, Obama commuted Manning's sentence.
Shortly after, in a press conference streamed on Periscope on Jan. 19, Assange said he was willing to hold up his end of the bargain but said he'd like to know what charges the US planned to file against him or have a guarantee the the US would drop any charges before he did so.
The US made no public statements regarding specific charges against Assange until Thursday.
I heard something about the Trump campaign working with Assange.
What's that about?
Various members of the Donald Trump campaign are reported to have been in contact with Assange during the 2016 US presidential election.
Trump campaign staffer Paul Manafort reportedly visited Assange multiple times at the Ecuadorian embassy in London before the election.
According to The Guardian, Manafort's last visit occurred in March 2016, around the time he assumed the title of campaign chairman.
WikiLeaks has disputed the report.
In September 2016, Assange reportedly reached out to Donald Trump Jr. in a series of private Twitter messages, according to the Atlantic.
Trump Jr. responded sparingly, according to the report, but did act on some of the messages by telling other members of the campaign about their contents.
Lastly, campaign advisor Roger Stone acknowledged communication with WikiLeaks and another website that released hacked emails from political organizations in 2016.
Special counsel Robert Mueller also said he had evidence of those exchanges.
Stone says he never had advance knowledge of WikiLeaks' plans to publish hacked documents.
A report from CBS News said Stone received a warning of the data dumps from his associate Jerome Corsi.
The US charge against Assange has nothing to do with WikiLeaks publishing information that US intelligence officials say was stolen by Russian hackers.
The crime he's charged with is specific to the documents stolen by Manning.
Will President Trump will get involved?
The US president appears to be distancing himself from Assange's case.
Despite praising WikiLeaks multiple times on the campaign trail, at a press conference on Thursday, Trump told reporters that he knew nothing about the organization.
He also noted that he would be leaving the case up to the Justice Department to handle.
"I know the attorney general will be involved in it, and he'll make a decision," Trump said.
CNET's Alfred Ng contributed to this report.
Winter is here.
The White Walkers are coming.
The fight for life against death.
You know the drill.
Game of Thrones' eighth and final season kicks off this Sunday.
If you're reading this article, you've probably rewatched the previous seven seasons to prepare yourself for Sunday's debut.
I'm right there with you.
I returned to the Seven Kingdoms every day for the past six weeks, and it was majestic.
Based on the writings of George R.R.
Martin, Game of Thrones provides a rich, deeply satisfying world to those willing to work for it.
It's an adventure for sure, and here are the best and worst chapters of that adventure.
A note: Somebody has to come last in every race.
Most of the criticisms below come from holding the show to a high standard and comparing it against itself.
Game of Thrones is pretty darn great even at the worst of times.
(Except for some of Bran and Daenerys' plots.
A few of those are not darn great.)
It goes without saying, but Game of Thrones spoilers below.
HBO A bad Game of Thrones season is still good TV.
Season seven, broadcast a lifetime ago in 2017, had some of the best moments in the history of the show.
The problem is that the whole season was essentially one moment after another.
Tent Poles with no tent.
The season is notorious for its playing loose with time and space.
Characters travel to and from Winterfell, Dragonstone, The Wall, King's Landing in a scene or two, when previously such journeys would take at least an episode.
The pace is dizzying, and most of the plots relate to one key character interacting with another key character (Daenerys and Jon, Arya and Sansa, etc.).
Despite the plot playing out in several major, distinct locations, the effect on storytelling is that the world feels smaller.
King's Landing doesn't feel like a city anymore, it's just where Cersei Lannister lives.
The point of season seven is to drive home that the world is in grave danger, so it's ironic that the world feels like less of a character than ever here.
Now playing: Watch this: Game of Thrones Season 8: All your questions answered...
There's certainly a lot to love, though.
Arya Stark's Winterfell return, the death of Littlefinger and Jon meeting Daenerys for the first time are scenes to be YouTubed for years to come.
Jon's exoneration of Theon Greyjoy and the Stark sisters' commemorating Ned Stark were both inspiring, and the whole White Walker dragon thing sets the stakes high.
Plus, the anticipated return of Hot Pie.
So yes, there's no shortage of hallmark moments.
But I suspect that once Game of Thrones' final credits roll and the entire show can be viewed soberly, season seven won't hold up as well as the rest.
Best bits: Arya comes home, Littlefinger's death, Jon meets Daenerys, Jon and Theon, Jaime Lannister finally bails on Cersei.
Hot Pie.
HBO This season came in hot, as the prior one ended with Tyrion Lannister murdering his father, Tywin.
However, it didn't truly capitalise on the momentum of the excellent fourth season; it was more plodding plot than substantial storytelling.
(For Game of Thrones, at least.)
Tyrion ends up counselling Daenerys, but the road to getting there isn't a particularly gratifying one.
Daenerys' exploits in Essos, as with most seasons, are a low point here with the Sons of the Harpy subplot.
It's actually an above-average Daenerys plot, thanks largely to the tense battle that leaves Grey Worm injured and Ser Barristan Selmy dead.
But Daenerys' destiny is in Westeros, so Essos monkey business ultimately feels inconsequential, particularly this late in the game.
The same can be said for the King's Landing plot, which has the High Sparrow and his religious cult take over the city.
The High Sparrow is himself a compelling character, but we ultimately know he's a diversion.
Cersei's shaming is legendary at this point, but she was always going to win in the end.
The High Sparrow story was hard to get truly invested in because it felt more like a mere roadblock for Cersei.
A peculiar, thoughtful roadblock, but a roadblock nonetheless.
Meanwhile, Jaime and Bronn being buds in Dorne was fun, and Marcella's death scene, including Jaime's admission, was an emotional, if hastily-built, moment.
The rest of the Dornish adventure was a letdown to many fans, however.
Arya Stark's training to become a Faceless Man, mostly consisting of her mopping floors, was OK at best.
Best bits: Tyrion meets Daenerys, Jon gets named Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, Jon gets murdered by the Night's Watch, Jaime and Bronn hang out.
HBO Season two, like season five, had a tough act to follow.
Game of Thrones lost its leading man, or what we thought was its leading man, in the first season.
We were left with the petulant, psychopathic Joffrey and no hero to truly counterbalance him.
Rob Stark is cool, but it was hard to bank on a Stark after season one.
Joffrey Baratheon really is a spectacular villain, though.
They say the best antagonists are ones with a legitimate axe to grind, but Joffrey is the exception to that rule.
It's impossible to not hate him.
You just can't wait for him to die.
A truly effective bad guy.
The way he interacts with Tyrion, who takes over as Hand of the King, is terrific.
Particularly memorable is the scene in which Tyrion protects Sansa from a public beating.
And of course, Tyrion's shining moment was the Battle of Blackwater Bay, an epic battle -- even though it's been dwarfed in scale several times over by battles in subsequent seasons.
Another series highlight is Tywin Lannister using Arya as his cupbearer.
Game of Thrones is at its best when it spotlights how life and the people in it are grey, not black-and-white.
Even though Arya desperately wanted to kill Tywin, you get the sense these two could have been great budds in another dimension.
Speaking of happy alternative realities, season two is part one of the tragedy that is Jon and Ygritte.
But the season has its drawbacks.
Namely, Daenerys' time in Qarth is a routine buzzkill.
The jostling between Stannis and Renly Baratheon is OK, but at this point we're not invested in either character.
Theon's betrayal of the Starks becomes a key element of the Thrones tale later, but it's chaotic here.
And that's really the issue with season two.
It's still quality TV, and there are many stellar elements.
Furthermore, watching it back in retrospect, knowing where everyone ends up, does improve it.
But it's frenetic, bordering on disorientating.
It's something of a sacrificial lamb in that regard, setting up future seasons for success.
Best bits: Joffrey's spectacular unlikability.
Arya hangs out with Tywin.
Tyrion as Hand of the King.
Battle of Blackwater Bay.
Jon meets Ygritte.
HBO Game of Thrones' third season was truly great TV.
It's home to arguably the show's most infamous scene, The Red Wedding, and what I would argue is its best love story, Jon and Ygritte.
After a flurry of victories against Tywin, Rob's fortunes reverse in this season.
He begins losing momentum and then, after breaking an oath to Walder Frey, loses his life.
He and mother Catelyn Stark are betrayed by Roose Bolton, setting the stage for the rise of Ramsay Bolton, one of the show's better antagonists.
Meanwhile, Jon, finding himself alone on the wrong side of the wall in season two, is forced to become one with the Free Folk.
Eat with the Free Folk.
Sleep with the Free Folk.
Breed with their women, and so on.
This leads to a Romeo and Juliet-style conundrum for Jon.
He falls in love with Ygritte, a Free Folk (Free Person?)
who he eventually has to bail on to return to Castle Black.
This culminates with a touching scene in the final episode.
Ygritte could have killed Jon with her bow and arrow, you see, but chose to only injure him nonfatally.
True love.
Back in King's Landing, Tywin reclaims position of Hand of the King, shirking Tyrion to the ignoble Master of Coin position.
Tyrion is forced to marry Sansa, but refuses to consummate the marriage and further traumatise his bride.
Like season two, this season is also propped up by the infinitely hateable Joffrey, who goes out of his way to torture Tyrion (and basically everyone else).
Best bits: The Red Wedding, Jon and Ygritte part two, Jaimie and Brienne of Tarth's travels, Tywin puts the King to bed.
HBO Game of Thrones' sixth season is where Jon became The Man.
If season one was The Ned Stark Hour, this is the Jon Snow Show.
Three episodes in, Jon gets resurrected by Lady Melisandre.
The next episode he hangs his betrayers.
Five episodes later he kills Ramsay Bolton in the Battle of the Bastards.
The season ends with northern lords naming him the King in the North.
This season also breathed life into Sansa.
She became more of an active participant in the story after five seasons of the story happening to her.
It's also where we're introduced to Lyanna Mormont, one of the show's best side characters.
The High Sparrow saga ends in cataclysmic fashion, with Cersei blowing up the high sept.
The music played throughout this sequence still haunts my nightmares.
(In a good way.)
Arya's training, while still average TV, improved over the previous season's.
We get a lot of Sam Tarly here, which also slows the pace down.
Bran's time with the Three-Eyed Raven is arguably the worst part of the season, but its climax, the famous The Door episode, is an all-time favourite.
Season six ends with Cersei crowned Queen, Jon the King in the North and Daenerys finally on her way to Westeros.
The dominoes are well and truly falling.
Best bits: Jon is revived, "My watch has ended," Sansa kills Ramsay, Jon is named King in the North, Jon reunites with Sansa, Cersei mass murders a city.
"Hold the door."
HBO Oh, Ned.
Sweet Ned.
Season one of Game of Thrones feels so long ago, a happy, distant dream land.
We were all so naive.
It's synonymous with Ned Stark, whose spectre has hovered over the show since, the foundation of poignant moments even six seasons later.
Game of Thrones' first season is magnificently beguiling.
At first you think this is a story about two Lannister siblings going to nefarious ends to cover up their incestuous relationship.
You think the hero of this story is Ned Stark.
You find out that the Lannister scandal is an important but ultimately minor piece of this puzzle.
You find out that this isn't a story where the good guys always win.
I struggle to think about TV moments I personally found more shocking than Ned's beheading.
The Red Wedding usually gets thrown about as the bigger swerve, but it was Ned's death that established what Game of Thrones' was really about.
The Red Wedding just cemented it.
The first season also expertly lays seeds that blossom into centerpiece plants in the Game of Thrones garden; Tyrion disciplining Joffrey, the subtle differences in Varys and Littlefinger's whispers, the dutiful but resentful Hound.
Come back to us Ned.
We miss you.
Best bits: Ned Stark.
HBO Before rewatching all the available Game of Thrones seasons, I was sure the first season was best.
Then, one balmy Sunday, I watched the entirety of season four in one day.
It was the best day of my life.
Banger after banger.
Joffrey's death is its first major moment.
It was perfectly timed, being a surprise without feeling either contrived or arbitrary.
It was also a sufficiently painful way for such a vile character to die, giving us just the right amount of payoff without feeling gratuitous.
Then there's Tyrion's trial and his "I will let the Gods decide" speech, which'll give anyone goosebumps.
The hits keep coming; Bronn's budding bromance with Jaime Lannister, Jaime's brotherly love for Tyrion, Oberyn Martell's fight against The Mountain and of course Tyrion murdering his toilet-strapped father.
This is also where the show's best unlikely-tandem hit their stride: The Hound and Arya.
Their semi-friendship provides many memorable scenes, including the brawl with Lannister soldiers where Arya gets Needle back, the touching scene in which The Hound shows Arya how to most efficiently kill a man, and of course the encounter with Brienne of effing Tarth.
The season ended with Tywin's death and Tyrion's escape to Essos.
But the emotional peak came before; the Free Folk and the Night's Watch collide in a battle at Castle Black in episode nine.
Ygritte dies.
No you're crying.
Best bits: Joffrey dies, Ygritte dies, Tyrion's speech, Tyrion's trial by combat, Tyrion killing his dad, Arya and The Hound.
Disney is betting big on its 2019 streaming service called Disney Plus, and it's started laying its cards on the table: In a three-hour event on Thursday, Disney revealed the release date, price, shows and movies for its Netflix competitor.
At an investor day at the company's Buena Vista studios in California, Disney CEO Bob Iger headlined a presentation that included demos of the Disney Plus app, trailers and behind-the-scenes footage of its exclusive shows like the Star Wars TV series The Mandalorian.
It even threw in a new Avengers: Endgame clip for good measure.
Much of the premium original programming planned for Disney Plus leans into the company's big-budget franchises like Marvel and Star Wars.
Some shows -- like the live-action, big-budget The Mandalorian -- have completed filming and will be available at launch.
Marvel spinoffs like a show based on Avengers character Loki and WandaVision featuring Scarlet Witch and The Vision will debut in the first year.
So is the Disney Plus streaming service worth paying for?
The details that we know so far are below, but basically: If you're a parent or you love Star Wars or Marvel movies, you may find yourself considering yet another subscription before the year is out.
Now playing: Watch this: Disney cuts the cord with Netflix What's the Disney streaming service?
The Disney Plus streaming service will be a competitor to video streaming services such as Netflix.
It's free of advertising, and customers pay a monthly fee to access to a vast library of Disney's and Fox's legacy content as well as new, exclusive TV shows, movies and documentaries.
Disney's other streaming services -- Hulu and sports-focused ESPN Plus -- will run on the same tech platform so you can subscribe to them with the same password and credit card info.
Disney plans for all three to be individual subscriptions, but it said it's likely to bundle them at a discount.
Hulu will be where Disney streams more adult-oriented fare.
For example, Hulu is where a new Marvel collection of grown-up animated series will stream, and it's likely where Deadpool-like content will live now that Disney owns Fox.
Hulu will continue to stream content from three of the broadcast networks and its own original series, like The Handmaid's Tale and Castle Rock.
(ESPN Plus will, clearly, focus on sports.)
Disney Plus will include all of Disney's family-friendly and much of its mass-audience fare.
It'll have content from Disney proper, Marvel, Lucasfilm (so: Star Wars), Pixar and National Geographic.
And, outside those traditional categories, it will also offer all 30 seasons of The Simpsons, a new feather in its cap from the Fox takeover.
When's the release date?
You'll be waiting even longer than Avengers: Endgame for this.
Disney says it will launch on Nov. 12.
The timing is strategically smart.
For one, DIsney Plus can piggyback on the marketing for all of Disney's big-budget films being released for the holiday season -- Frozen 2 hits theaters Nov. 22 and Star Wars: Episode IX will be released Dec. 20.
But Netflix has also shown that the last couple months of the year is when it tends mint some of its biggest viewership.
Bird Box, the movie it says was viewed by more than 80 million accounts in its first month of release, came out on Dec. 21.
Bright, its fantasy crime flick starring Will Smith, was the company's most-viewed film before Bird Box -- it was released Dec. 13.
How much will it cost?
Disney said the service will cost $7 a month, or $70 a year.
Its price undercuts Netflix's $13 monthly fee for its most popular plan in the US, which lets you stream to two different devices simultaneously in high definition.
Disney Chief Financial Officer Christine M. McCarthy hinted Disney Plus pricing may rise as the service advances, calling the $7-a-month fee an "initial" price.
The company also said it's likely to bundle Disney Plus with Hulu and ESPN Plus, offering a discount if you subscribe to two or three of its streaming options.
Way back in 2017, Iger noted that the price would reflect the "fact that it will have substantially less volume" than prime competitor Netflix.
As Disney has time to funnel more exclusives and originals into Disney Plus, it's a good bet the company will start tapping its price incrementally higher.
Disney/Screenshot by Bonnie Burton/CNET How will this affect Disney stuff on Netflix?
Disney will mostly disappear from Netflix by late 2019.
Since 2016, Netflix has been the first place to watch Disney's movies with a subscription.
That deal meant Netflix was the go-to place for the biggest US blockbusters of the last three years.
The top two movies of 2017 and the top three movies of 2016 and 2018 were all from Disney, and Netflix has been the place to binge them all.
But Disney decided against renewing that Netflix deal as it plotted its own competitor.
Starting with Disney's 2019 slate of movies, all those films are destined for Disney Plus.
That means Captain Marvel, the first movie Disney is releasing theatrically in 2019, will be the first movie Netflix misses out on.
It also means that Mary Poppins Returns should be the final Disney movie that will have some type of release window on Netflix.
Netflix's Marvel Defenders shows are complicated, though.
Netflix has put out five original series based on Defenders characters in partnership with Disney.
In 2018, Netflix canceled three of them: Daredevil, Luke Cage and Iron Fist.
Then in 2019, Netflix canceled the last two: The Punisher and Jessica Jones.
Kevin Mayer, the Disney executive in charge of Disney Plus, has said Disney Plus could possibly revive the canceled shows.
But the terms of their original deal could restrict Disney Plus from any revivals until 2020, according to a report.
A third, and now final, season of Jessica Jones is still set to arrive on Netflix sometime in 2019.
But after that, all we know about the future of these characters is Marvel Television chief Jeph Loeb teasing fans that the characters will continue in some form.
But the only thing for sure about that form right now: It won't involve Netflix.
Shows and movies: What will I be able to watch?
Disney Plus will include content from the Disney brand itself, Marvel, Pixar, Star Wars and National Geographic.
It will also integrate programming from Fox -- all 30 seasons of The Simpsons will be on Disney Plus starting day one, and more titles like The Sound of Music, The Princess Bride and Malcolm in the Middle will join it in the first year.
Disney Plus will be the only place you can stream all of Disney's theatrically released movies starting with Captain Marvel at launch and the rest of its 2019 slate later on.
Frozen 2, for example, will be streamable on the service next summer after its theatrical release in November.
Disney Plus will also house the entire film libraries of Pixar, Star Wars and its Signature Series and Disney Vault lines of classic hand-drawn animated movies.
(Think Bambi, The Lion King, Snow White and so on.)
And of course, the company is developing a big slate of original, exclusive shows and movies for the service.
Major originals include The Mandalorian, a big-budget series starring Pedro Pascal about a bounty-hunting gunfighter that takes place five years after the events in The Return of the Jedi.
A Star Wars prequel series based on Rogue One will star Diego Luna, who played Cassian Andor in the original movie.
And Disney has three live-action series drawing the stars of its blockbuster Avengers movies into their own shows: a Loki series featuring Tom Hiddleston; The Falcon and The Winter Soldier with Anthony Mackie and Sebastian Stan, and WandaVision with Elizabeth Olsen in her role of Scarlet Witch and Paul Bettany reprising The Vision.
Disney Plus will have original documentaries, reality shows, competition series, behind-the-scenes features, nature and adventure titles, animated programming -- the list goes on.
Even though all of Disney's movies will stream exclusively on Disney Plus, the company doesn't plan to debut any of its big-budget motion pictures on the service.
Unlike Netflix's so-called day-and-date approach, which releases most of its films on big screens and on its streaming service at the same time, Disney plans for its tentpole movies, like those in its Star Wars franchise, to run their course in theaters before making them available with a digital subscription.
We do know the service will include shows and movies such as: Star Wars: The Clone Wars Marvel movies, starting with 2019's Captain Marvel Star Wars films, starting with 2019's Episode 9 Pixar films, starting with 2019's Toy Story 4 The Star Wars TV series The Mandalorian, being developed by Jon Favreau.
A Star Wars Rogue One prequel TV series, starring Diego Luna.
A live-action Marvel series A Marvel series featuring Scarlet Witch, played by Elizabeth Olsen A Marvel limited series focused on Hawkeye, featuring Jeremy Renner Possible Marvel series that would team up Bucky Barnes (Sebastian Stan) and Sam Wilson, aka Falcon (Anthony Mackie), according to Slashfilm.
A possible What If-themed Marvel series that would imagine what the Marvel Cinematic Universe would look like if different events took place.
According to a Slashfilm report, the series would be overseen by MCU head Kevin Feige and would be an animated anthology show.
An episode example would reportedly feature how the Marvel timeline would unfold if Loki found Thor's hammer.
Marvel's Hero Project, a documentary series featuring the positive changes several young people are making in their own communities.
Marvel's 616 (working title), a documentary series exploring the intersection between Marvel's stories and the real world.
An animated series spinoff of Pixar's Monsters, Inc called Monsters at Work.
A series adapted from Disney movie Escape to Witch Mountain A 10-episode series, Diary of a Female President, about a 12-year-old Cuban-American girl.
A documentary about Walt Disney Imagineering.
A Timmy Failure film directed by Spotlight's Tom McCarthy.
A live-action Lady and the Tramp remake.
A Sword in the Stone remake.
Noelle, a movie starring Anna Kendrick.
Togo, a sled dog movie starring Willem Dafoe.
A Three Men and a Baby remake.
The Paper Magician film.
A Stargirl film.
A High School Musical series.
Encore!, a reality show that reunites former castmates of a high school musical to re-creating their original performances of productions like The Sound of Music, Beauty and the Beast and Annie.
A possible Muppets series.
Earthkeepers (working title), a cinematic documentary series the animal kingdom and people working to protect endangered species.
Be Our Guest, a Disney-inspired cooking competition at Walt Disney World.
Cinema Relics: Iconic Art of the Movies (working title), an eight-episode series revisiting beloved films through their props and costumes.
Films featured include Tron, Mary Poppins, The Muppet Movie, Who Framed Roger Rabbit?
and Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl.
(Re)Connect, a reality program that explores divisions in individual families and their journeys with a specialized expert to confront their dilemmas.
Rogue Trip, a travel guide to misunderstood and overlooked corners of the world.
Shop Class (working title), a competition among students designing and testing new contraptions.
What shows and movies do you want to appear on Disney's streaming service?
Pop them into the comments section and we'll keep updating this post with more information as it becomes available.
Originally published Aug. 27, 2018 and updated as new information is revealed.
Congress rarely agrees on anything.
Except for regulating the tech industry.
But a year after the Cambridge Analytica scandal upended Facebook, Capitol Hill is still unable to step up to the plate.
Lawmakers this week oversaw six hours of hearings in the House and Senate judiciary committees to discuss the spread of extremism and concerns about censorship on the internet.
By the end, after testimony from victims, advocates and even policy people at Facebook, Twitter and Google, there were no major revelations.
And there was no agreement about how to move forward.
Bupkis.
That's even after a year of screwups that exposed the intimate data of hundreds of millions of people, including what they "liked" on Facebook, their Social Security numbers, passport information and home addresses.
It's even after a year of continued harassment campaigns, punctuated by an attempted attack on a predominantly black church in Kentucky and killings at a Pittsburgh synagogue.
It's gotten so bad that many of us have resigned ourselves to the very real possibility that the disinformation spread by Russia and other bad actors who interfered in the 2016 US presidential race will be replayed to millions of people in 2020.
The Senate hearing just became another bit of white noise on Capitol Hill.
The House Judiciary Committee called its hearing on the internet's role in spreading hate after a white supremacist attacked two mosques in New Zealand, killing 50 people and injuring 50 more last month.
He used Facebook to livestream his massacre to the world for 17 minutes, and the video was reuploaded to Facebook, Twitter and YouTube faster than the companies could react.
The hearing should have been a sober discussion about how we as a country can combat this scourge, and what role Facebook, Twitter and Google should play.
Instead, lawmakers and witnesses talked past each other.
NPR said it "deteriorated into partisan bickering."
Quartz said it showed the end of decency in US politics.
"In a congressional hearing on hate, the haters got their way," Wired declared.
Now playing: Watch this: What Facebook and Google say theyre doing to combat... We're still coming to terms with the ways the tech industry has changed the world.
But what we do know is that years of monstrous growth with little oversight have created a powder keg.
Social media has exacerbated extremism, helping white supremacists and neo-Nazis move into the mainstream political landscape while simultaneously recruiting lone-wolf attackers to kill their perceived enemies.
Civil discourse has dropped.
People have died.
These are tough issues that lawmakers around the globe are grappling with.
The European Union has passed privacy laws.
The UK is moving to establish its first internet regulator with the power to punish companies that don't tackle disinformation and terrorist posts.
In the US, there are some ideas like the Honest Ads Act, to strengthen online political ad rules, and the Data Care Act, requiring companies to safeguard people's data.
But if this week's hearings are any indication, there's little hope for meaningful reform anytime soon.
For the foreseeable future, our fates are in the hands of the very companies that led us here in the first place.
Yes, Mark Zuckerberg, Jack Dorsey and Sundar Pichai, I'm talking about you.
Representatives for Facebook, Google and Twitter, and the chairmen of both committees, didn't respond to requests for comment.
Asleep at the wheel It began Tuesday, when the House Judiciary Committee held a hearing about the spread of extremism and white supremacy on the internet.
Among the witnesses were representatives from Google and Facebook, though the company's CEOs skipped out.
There were activists chosen by conservatives and liberals in the committee.
They included representatives from the Jewish anti-hate group the Anti-Defamation League, the head of the civil rights advocacy group Equal Justice Society and the president of the pro-Israeli firm Zionist Organization of America.
And there was a grieving parent who said his two daughters and son-in-law were killed, execution style, in their North Carolina home in 2015 because of their religion.
Getty Images House Judiciary Chairman Jerry Nadler, a Democrat from New York, said that technology from Facebook, Google and Twitter was helping spread hate and that efforts by those companies to fix the problem were falling short.
"These platforms are utilized as conduits to spread vitriolic hate messages into every home in the country," Nadler said.
But the hearing soon descended into chaos.
What began as an effort to understand why hate incidents are increasing across the country was hijacked by people debating the point of the hearing in the first place.
Candace Owens, of the conservative college activist group Turning Point USA, argued that the hearing's actual goal was "fear-mongering, power and control" on the part of the committee's Democrats.
One lawmaker responded by playing a video of Owens discussing Nazi leader Adolph Hitler's nationalism.
By the end, many of the committee members had left, and all Twitter could talk about was Owens' fiery rhetoric and the streams of racist and ugly comments left on the committee's YouTube page.
No one agreed on any real solutions, and nothing was tabled for further discussion.
Wednesday's hearing in the Senate was no better.
Titled "Stifling Free Speech: Technological Censorship and the Public Discourse," it became a series of circular debates.
Republican Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas argued, without evidence, that social media companies were broadly silencing people they politically disagreed with.
Facebook, which has more than 2.3 billion monthly users, and Twitter, the social media site of choice for President Donald Trump, countered Cruz's claims.
"Suppressing content on the basis of political viewpoint, or preventing people from seeing what matters most to them, is directly contrary to Facebook's mission," said Neil Potts, Facebook's public policy director.
"We want Facebook to be a place where people can discover a greater diversity of news and information than they could otherwise."
Twitter said its internal data showed the company didn't unfairly censor any one group.
But it didn't matter.
The two sides couldn't agree.
So, with any serious policy discussion stalled, the hearing just became another bit of white noise on Capitol Hill.
"This is politics," said Hawaii Sen. Mazie Hirono, during the hearing.
Getty Images At least...
If lawmakers accomplished anything this week, they avoided offering up a defiant moment the tech industry could rally around.
Last year, they weren't so lucky.
During a closely watched hearing broadcast across the country in April 2018, Utah Sen. Orrin Hatch asked how Facebook remains a service that's free to use.
Zuckerberg paused.
"Senator, we run ads," he said and then flashed a smirk.
Facebook employees watching back in the company's Menlo Park headquarters cheered on the politician's apparent cluelessness.
Investors on Wall Street bumped up Facebook's value.
People even put the quote on T-shirts, mugs and bumper stickers.
Tech scored a win.
And the rest of us were left to reflect on how badly our representatives had failed the American people.
How can Congress hope to regulate something it barely understands?
Getty Images When I asked that of Virginia Democractic Sen. Mark Warner a year ago, his tone shifted from animated to resigned.
"I think it will be an evolutionary process," he said at the time.
Warner is one of the few lawmakers who's offered policy proposals to overhaul political advertising on the internet, strengthen privacy and make it easier for people to move from one social network to the other.
As a member of the influential Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Warner's used his bully pulpit to make tech a key issue.
But he knows any policy aimed at Facebook, Twitter and Google will go nowhere unless his fellow lawmakers understand what's going on.
"This is a problem that's not going to go away," he said.
"I hope there was a step forward on the education process this week and that members will maybe get their staffs or others to brief them up."
A year later, there's little indication they have.
Maybe next year they'll do better.
A handful of 10-inch posable puppets in tailored costumes -- some in checked three-piece suits, others in floor-length gowns -- are lined up on a shelf, like a collection of Victorian-era action figures.
But what lies beneath those serene puppets is the stuff of nightmares.
"I'm going to take this wonderful puppet and rip his face off," says Brian McLean, director of rapid prototype at Laika, the stop-motion animation studio behind Kubo and the Two Strings and Coraline.
The now faceless puppet, with its circuitlike innards, suddenly looks more like an android from TV's Westworld.
Anne Dujmovic/CNET McLean is demonstrating one of the ways Laika has worked to make its puppets more lifelike than ever for its latest movie, the epic adventure Missing Link.
And it starts with replacing the puppets' faces, sometimes up to 24 times for one second of film.
The technique, called replacement animation, involves taking a picture of the puppet wearing one face and then swapping in another with a slightly different expression.
The studio, based outside Portland, Oregon, has used the technique since its first film, 2009's Oscar-nominated Coraline, fusing it with 3D-printing tech to produce faces that pop on and off.
But it's come a long way since then.
Director and writer Chris Butler describes Missing Link as "Indiana Jones meets Sherlock Holmes and Around the World in 80 Days -- with monsters in it."
Set in the Victorian era, the movie follows Bigfoot, aka Mr. Link (voiced by Zach Galifianakis), as he travels with adventurer Sir Lionel Frost (Hugh Jackman) across the globe in a search for the valley of Shangri-La and long-lost family.
"This was the first time our facial animation was bespoke," says Butler, who also co-wrote Kubo and the Two Strings and wrote and co-directed ParaNorman.
He and the animators painstakingly planned the puppets' exact facial expressions for more nuanced performances.
"It's another level of acting really," he says.
The facial expressions were so subtle at times that in at least one case, the visual effects team cleaned up what it thought was a mistake: a scene where a character's lips stick together as if his mouth is dry.
"I was like 'Put it back, put it back,'" Butler says with a laugh.
To add to a puppet's humanlike performance, animators do something even more disturbing than popping off faces, McLean says.
They stab a character's eyeballs and lids with an X-Acto blade to move them, giving its expression more subtlety.
He happily demonstrates exactly how on a nearby, faceless Lionel.
They're kind of like really fancy Mr.
Potato Heads.
Brian McLean, Laika's director of rapid prototype Laika spends anywhere from six months to a year designing the internal components of a puppet's head -- like eye rigs and mechanisms that hold the ears -- to give animators as much control as possible.
"They're kind of like really fancy Mr.
Potato Heads," McLean says.
In stop-motion filmmaking, animators carefully pose objects, take a still photo, move them ever so slightly, and take another still photo, repeating those steps.
When all those images are shown in succession, the objects appear to move independently.
Laika's 3D-printed replacement animation flips the usual stop-motion process on its head, McLean says.
Normally, animators draw out a scene, get the body movement and the timing just right -- known as blocking -- and only at the end add the facial animation.
For Missing Link, the director and animators chose expressions for each performance months before shooting.
On set, the animators decided how to position the puppets' bodies, costumes, hair, and even eyeballs and eyelids.
But they had a box of 3D-printed faces ready, and they essentially followed a spreadsheet outlining which expressions to use for each frame.
Anne Dujmovic/CNET Laika used a commercial 3D printer from Stratasys, which it started testing while still in beta, and Fraunhofer's Cuttlefish software to produce over 106,000 faces in color for Missing Link.
This was a huge leap from Coraline a decade earlier, when color wasn't an option.
Instead, the 20,000 faces printed for that film had to be hand-painted.
In the years since, the studio tinkered with finding the right formula to print in color without trading precision and accuracy.
For Missing Link, Laika was able to produce 3D-printed faces that "no one else in the world had the sophistication to do," McLean says.
No neck, no problem Building a believable Link -- the lonely Sasquatch at the heart of the story -- was a challenge from the beginning, according to John Craney, puppet fabrication supervisor.
"What's the worst-case scenario when you're asked to fabricate a puppet?"
asks Craney, standing in front of a naked Link.
Turns out it looks a lot like the movie's star: a husky character shaped like an avocado, over a foot tall and covered in fur.
But that's also what made it exciting, Craney says.
Creating a stage-ready puppet takes about nine months on average.
That includes building a character's intricate, skeletal insides -- its armature -- which give it a humanlike range of movement.
Link's armature contains over 250 components, says Craney, proudly pointing out the swivel in its forearms.
Link also has a foam interior similar to a mattress, and a built-in belly mover to add to his jaunty character.
All those details are what help bring out the performance from within, Craney says.
"I'm looking at structure underneath, so there's depth to these characters."
Another challenge was getting Link's body and head to move together in a natural way because he's got no neck.
His facial animation needed to drive the fur around his head and the rest of his body, McLean says.
It took about a year to come up with the answer: a 3D-printed plastic ring with magnets that attached to the lower part of the puppet's head and sat underneath the face.
The ring, known as a driver, worked together with Link's cowl to push and pull the fur into shapes to complement his facial expressions.
Making hybrid movies In Laika movies, the stop-motion puppets are the stars, but over the years digital visual effects have played an ever-growing supporting role.
As well as computer-generated effects like smoke and water, Missing Link features CG characters when the story calls for, say, a long line of imposing Yeti guards or a digital extension of handmade sets such as a Himalayan ice bridge.
This combination of digital and practical effects goes back to Laika's second movie -- ParaNorman, about a boy who can talk to the dead -- when the studio started making what it calls hybrid films.
"When we brought technology into the mix, we wanted to do so in a way that was ultimately respectful, and honor the art of stop-motion animation," says Steve Emerson, visual effects supervisor.
Now playing: Watch this: 2019 sci-fi and geeky movies to freak out about The visual effects team is involved from the beginning, working alongside puppet makers to ensure the characters they create digitally have the same limitations the real ones do.
"In the end, hopefully you can't really tell what's digital and what's not," Emerson says.
In post-production, the team also does cosmetic work -- for example, cleaning up the line created between a puppet's eyelids and face mask to give characters more of a humanlike quality.
"We're trying to get audiences to connect and empathize with 10-inch inanimate objects that are being pushed through space by human hands," Emerson says.
"So, [we do] whatever we can do to help you forget that you're looking at a puppet."
Laika is already deep into work on its sixth film, but it's not sharing any details yet.
Meanwhile, two other stop-motion movies are preparing to get underway in the Portland area.
One is Wendell and Wild, directed by Henry Selick (The Nightmare Before Christmas and Coraline).
The movie centers on two demon brothers who go up against a nun and a couple of goth teens, with voices by Jordan Peele and Keegan-Michael Key.
The other is Oscar-winning director Guillermo del Toro's take on Pinocchio, set during the rise of fascism in Italy.
More fuel for your nightmares.
Missing Link comes out April 12 in the US.
It was released April 5 in the UK and April 11 in Australia.
Last October, Google released the Pixel 3 and Pixel 3 XL and they have remained two of the best phones you can buy today.
With premium hardware, a fantastic camera and prompt software updates, the Pixel 3 has become my daily Android driver.
After six months straight of using it though, there are things that continue to be great and a few things that aren't.
Here are my key takeaways.
Now playing: Watch this: Pixel 3: 6 months in Pixel 3 camera is still amazing The Pixel 3's single rear camera is just as impressive today as it was when Google launched the phone.
New competitors like the Huawei P30 Pro and Galaxy S10 Plus have appeared with multiple cameras on the back.
Though I haven't handled those two phones for any significant amount of time -- and I know each are packed with their own great cameras full of new features -- I'm still more than satisfied with what the Pixel 3 does with just its single lens and software.
Because I've been using the Pixel 3 for months, I don't often think about the camera when I'm using it.
While out taking casual photos of my friends, scenery or food, I don't think twice; I suppose I became used to a certain photo quality standard.
But then I'll take a photo of a particularly tricky situation, say, a super dark scene at night or I'm in a moving car with a lot of movement, and the Pixel 3 turns out a fantastic photo.
At that moment, I'm reminded how impressive the camera is all over again.
Night Sight is a particular game changer.
Now I bust out my Pixel 3 confidently in environments that I thought were once impossible to take a decent photo of (even with flash), like my friends at a dimly lit bar or an attractive dish at a dark restaurant.
Photos turn out clear and bright that I don't think I'll ever go back to using the phone's flash.
Be aware of troubling call quality issues I haven't experienced this for myself, but there are enough reported incidents that I'd be remiss not to mention the fact that some Pixel owners experienced bad call and audio quality with their phones.
Users on Reddit and Google forums reported issues like audio cutting in and out, echoing, voices sounding really tinny or audio delays that stack up words on top of one another.
These problems are the kinds of issues that come to light months after phone launches and even the first Pixel in 2017 had microphone problems.
So far, Google hasn't released a reliable fix for this, but a representative from the company reported that it's working with users and actively looking into it.
Still, the issue is annoying and inconvenient for a lot of people.
The moment your phone's audio or call quality starts acting up, send it back, return it as soon as possible for a replacement and know that you're not the only person who ran into this problem.
Sarah Tew/CNET Pixel wouldn't stop flashing me One bug that I do have personal experience with is screen flashes.
Every now and then when I unlocked my screen, it would flash a bright white light for just a second.
It's really jarring and unexpected.
Many other people have had this problem, and for a while the fix seemed to be turning off the ambient display feature.
But even after doing this, once in a while the flashes still occur.
It's been reported, however, that Google just got around to fixing this problem with its latest April update.
I downloaded this update recently and so far it hasn't happened again, so here's hoping it's finally solved.
Love me some Call Screen It's unfortunate, but I use Call Screen way more times than I should.
Robocalling, spam and telemarketers are an irritating, modern-day problem.
Call Screen will be available on non-Pixel phones including the Moto G7.
Verizon has an app to block spam and the FCC is trying to fine robocallers.
I get about three to four spam calls a week, and they're incredibly annoying.
Having Call Screen is great because I tap a button and I start reading the little transcript to the spammer.
And it's so satisfying to either see them hang up or hang up on them without even picking up the phone.
It's one of the Pixel features I use a lot.
Sarah Tew/CNET Digital Wellbeing is eye-opening Digital Wellbeing is available on other Android phones in addition to the Pixel 3 and it has been eye-opening for me.
Because I stare at screens all day at work, I'm determined to limit how much I use my phone in the evenings.
Keeping tabs on how much I unlock my phone or how much time I spend on certain apps allow me to set those boundaries.
On average, I spend about two hours looking at my phone.
This is shorter than the national average of three hours, but I can always improve.
On days I only spend 30 or 45 minutes (usually weekends), I feel accomplished, and having that data is crucial.
I limit my apps, too, giving myself 15 minutes a day to browse Instagram.
Whenever the timer pops up or I get locked out, it's actually a relief.
I can put the phone down and say to myself that that's enough for today and perhaps it's time to step outside.
Screenshot by Lynn La/CNET When I first reviewed the phone, my bottom line was that the Pixel 3's "truly exceptional cameras and AI-powered call screening give it an edge on the other great phones in 2018's crowded winners' circle."
That still holds true today, and I look forward to what Google has in store for its successor, the Pixel 4 and 4 XL.
Rumors are circulating that the phones may have dual rear cameras, which would be interesting given that the Pixel 3 takes excellent photos with just one lens.
Google is also rumored to be launching a more affordable Pixel model known as the Pixel 3 Lite.
If you're interested in a Pixel but you're on a budget, it may be best to wait and see if the phone will actually be released.
If you can't wait, you can get the Pixel 3 and still have one of the best phones on the market.
Hero Images/Getty Images Quick!
Before you spend money on that novel, audiobook, magazine, movie or TV show you've been thinking about buying, check the library.
You remember the library, right?
The place with all the books?
Turns out it's also the place with all the modern digital media.
Thanks to a variety of apps and services, you can borrow an abundance of reading material and entertainment, all with a few clicks or taps.
What's available?
James Martin/CNET Exactly what you'll find, and how much of it, depends on the library.
Much of the aforementioned media comes from services such as Hoopla, OverDrive, RBdigital and Kanopy, but you can access it only if your library has partnered with those services.
And within those partnerships, you might be limited to a certain number of loans per month.
Don't expect an Amazon-level selection of e-books or a Netflix-caliber movie library, though.
The reality is that while you can certainly find plenty to read and watch, you might not always be able to find what you want to read and watch.
It's worth a look, though, because the library offers one considerable benefit over the likes of Amazon and Netflix: It's free!
Here's a quick summary of what you'll find and how to find it.
How to get e-books and audiobooks If I had to guess, I'd say five of the last six books I read came from the library.
Meaning I read them for free.
That's because my small-town library has partnered with both Hoopla and OverDrive, so I have access to a pretty generous selection.
Screenshot by Rick Broida/CNET Granted, I had to join a waiting list for some of them.
But that's often the case when you want to check out a physical book as well.
At least here I didn't have to actually go pick up the book when it became available -- it just popped up in the app.
Ready to jump in?
Here's everything you need to know about e-book borrowing.
How to get digital magazines Maybe I'm old fashioned (or just old), but I still love flipping through magazines.
And I'm perfectly content to do that on my tablet -- or, if need be, my phone.
Screenshot by Rick Broida/CNET That's possible thanks to RBdigital (formerly Zinio), which supplies digital editions of popular magazines.
At last count, my library card afforded me access to about 300 of them -- the same number, coincidentally, offered by Apple's News Plus, which costs $10 per month.
The RBdigital app (which, depending on your library, may also afford access to ebooks, comics and more) can be a little buggy, and it doesn't always format magazines well for reading on smaller (i.e.
phone) screens.
But the price is right.
Here's how to get started reading digital magazines from your library.
How to get movies and TV shows Recently my mom recommended -- no, outright demanded -- I watch a British TV series called "A Place to Call Home."
Alas, it's not currently available for streaming from Amazon Prime, Netflix or Hulu.
But guess which service does have it?
Hoopla Digital.
And guess which library partners with Hoopla Digital?
Mine.
Kanopy That's a win, to be sure, though Hoopla's overall selection of TV and movies is pretty mixed.
It's mostly made up of older titles, many you probably haven't heard of.
But on the TV side, you'll find a good assortment of kid-friendly fare, BBC shows and educational stuff.
And there are some worthwhile movies and documentaries mixed in there, including RBG, What We Do in the Shadows and Bridget Jones's Diary.
If you're lucky, your library will also be partnered with Kanopy, which offers a growing library of top-shelf films.
Yes, films: Indies, classics, documentaries, world cinema and so on.
Hoopla and Kanopy are two of the services listed in my roundup of the best free online movie services.
Head there to learn more.
Now playing: Watch this: This library puts tech in the hands of its patrons CNET's Cheapskate scours the web for great deals on PCs, phones, gadgets and much more.
Note that CNET may get a share of revenue from the sale of the products featured on this page.
Questions about the Cheapskate blog?
Find the answers on our FAQ page.
Find more great buys on the CNET Deals page and follow the Cheapskate on Facebook and Twitter!
Marvel Studios Disney Plus will launch Nov. 12 in the US for $7 a month, or $70 a year if you get an annual subscription.
Disney revealed the launch date and price Thursday, while talking up the streaming service's exclusive shows, including new Marvel and Star Wars adventures -- and every episode of The Simpsons.
Its price undercuts Netflix's $13 monthly fee for its most popular plan in the US, which lets you stream to two different devices simultaneously in high definition.
Disney Chief Financial Officer Christine M. McCarthy hinted that Disney Plus pricing may rise as the service advances, calling the $7 monthly fee an "initial" price.
The company also said it's likely to bundle Disney Plus with Hulu and ESPN Plus, offering a discount if you subscribe to two or three of its streaming options.
"This is an exciting time; it's also a challenging time," Chief Executive Bob Iger said Thursday.
But "deciding how to navigate this was not difficult for us," he said, explaining that Disney is focused on its ocean of premium content and distributing it in different ways.
The news came during the entertainment giant's two-hour-plus event to unveil Disney Plus and explain its wider streaming strategy.
The presentation included a laundry list of new and original show announcements, early peeks at high-profile exclusives like Star Wars spinoff The Mandalorian -- and even offered glimpses at Disney's biggest movie releases to come this year, including a scene from Marvel's Avengers: Endgame.
After years of putting streaming in the back seat to protect its big-budget blockbusters and lucrative TV model, Disney has made streaming its top priority this year, even restructuring the company around it.
Disney Disney Plus is the highest-profile example of traditional Hollywood going to extreme lengths to fortify against competition from digital powerhouses like Netflix, Amazon and -- soon -- Apple, which is launching its own Apple TV Plus service.
Those deep-pocketed companies have been pouring money into their own TV shows and movies.
Digital upstarts have fueled TV cord-cutting and, in Netflix's case, tried to upend theatrical release norms for movies -- all threats to the survival of companies like Disney.
From Disney's projections, however, Netflix won't be under threat for years.
Disney predicted it would reach 60 million to 90 million subscribers by the end of its 2024 fiscal year -- Netflix already has swollen to nearly 140 million.
And Disney predicted that its content spending would jump from $1 billion in its first year to $2 billion four years later.
Netflix, by comparison, will spend an estimated $12 billion on content this year.
Content is king But programming announcements were the star of the show on Thursday.
Disney said it would release more than 25 original series and 10 new films, documentaries and specials in the first year of Disney Plus.
That includes some previously known titles, like its Star Wars spinoff The Mandalorian and a Rogue One prequel with Diego Luna reprising his role of Cassian Andor; the Marvel Studios series Loki, starring Tom Hiddleston; and a Pixar series Monsters at Work, returning to the world of Monsters Inc. after the events of the original film.
And Disney unleashed new information about rumored programs and unveiled previously unknown projects.
It confirmed that its Loki series will be joined by other Marvel exclusives, like The Falcon and The Winter Soldier live-action series starring Anthony Mackie and Sebastian Stan in their roles known from the Avengers franchise.
A live-action WandaVision sees the return of Elizabeth Olsen to the role of Scarlet Witch and Paul Bettany to The Vision character.
And Marvel's What If will be the studio's first animated series that will explore pivotal moments from the Marvel Cinematic Universe and flip its script.
Disney Also in animation, Disney will premiere a documentary series about the making of Frozen 2, called Into the Unknown.
(And parents take note: The much-anticipated sequel to Frozen will be available to stream on Disney Plus by the summer.)
And Pixar will contribute Toy Story-based projects Forky Asks a Question and short film Lamp Life, featuring Bo Peep.
The event also served as a chance for Disney to flex its new access to Fox content, after it closed its $71.3 billion takeover of 21st Century Fox earlier this year.
In an announcement that drew an audible reaction from the crowd gathered on Disney's studio lot, Disney Plus announced that all 30 seasons of The Simpsons would be available on the service on day one.
In the first year, Fox titles like The Sound of Music, The Princess Bride, and Malcolm in the Middle will join it.
And Disney is also including libraries of already released franchise content.
All the Star Wars movies will be there, as will all of Pixar's.
All told, Disney Plus will have more than 7,500 television episodes and 500 films.
A tech venture Disney also gave a demo of the Disney Plus app and answered questions about some crucial tech features.
Disney/Screenshot by CNET In a godsend to parents whose childen cannot be placated on long-haul flights unless they're watching their favorite Pixar movie (a.k.a.
almost all parents), Disney Plus will allow unlimited downloads for offline viewing so long as you're actively subscribed.
All of Disney's theatrical releases will come to Disney Plus for streaming, but Disney said that this will be after their run in theaters -- and after they've been sold for home viewing.
Even though Disney's windowing will protect the home viewing business selling DVDs, Blu-rays and iTunes-like downloads, the ability to download from Disney Plus will put some pressure on it.
People will be weighing whether they should buy a copy of Frozen 2, Toy Story 4 or Captain Marvel, or just wait a little longer to watch through Disney Plus instead -- and get everything else.
Disney Plus is also built with profiles, so your recommendations don't get mixed up with those of other family members, and parental gating features, so young kids can be kept away from Marvel or Star Wars programming that's still too mature for them to see.
Disney said that it's pursuing wide device support, noting that the service will be streamable on phones, smart TVs, streaming boxes and game consoles.
It confirmed Roku and Playstation 4 support.
Originally published April 11 at 5:01 p.m. PT.
Update 7:25 p.m. PT: Adds more details about programming; April 12 at 4:02 a.m. PT: Adds details about device support and downloads.
The Note 10 could be the sixth Galaxy flagship phone Samsung is expected to announce this year -- in August, specifically, if Samsung follows its yearly pattern.
But with four Galaxy S10 phones (the Galaxy S10E, S10, S10 Plus and Galaxy S10 5G) and the foldable Galaxy Fold, things are getting busy.
How does the Note fit in?
By keeping what we love about the Galaxy S10 phones and perfecting their unignorable weaknesses.
The Note usually represents the culmination of top-notch features, including a larger screen size and battery capacity, processor speed, camera tech and new tricks for the digital stylus, Samsung's S Pen.
It stands to reason that Samsung might hold back the pinnacle of its features for the Note line.
Things are different in 2019.
As 5G and foldable devices emerge this year, Samsung may have a harder time making a case for the Note to compete with other devices this holiday season, including its own raft of phones.
It'll also compete with the LG V50, typically strong showings from Apple's iPhone in September and October's Google Pixel.
Now playing: Watch this: New leaks on the Samsung Galaxy Note 10 Here's how Samsung could have the Note 10 pull ahead of the already excellent Galaxy S10 Plus.
1.
That screen cutout (don't call it a notch) If wallpapers of robots and basketball players don't make you chuckle, you might be ready to see Samsung experiment with a different design for that front-facing camera.
On the S10 phones, the selfie camera takes the form of a circular cutout shifted to the right side of the screen, or a horizontal oval, in the case of the Galaxy S10 Plus.
Angela Lang/CNET While it won't get in the way most of the time, it is noticeable when the screen is white.
Notch cutouts and cameras that pop up are other solutions, but they've also got their share of critics and proponents.
Still, the Infinity-O display that offsets this hole-punch design isn't universally loved, which gives Samsung a chance to try again.
Read: 15 fantastic Galaxy S10 wallpapers and how to get them 2.
3D face unlock 3D cameras are starting to appear more frequently on Android phones.
But few have attempted to follow the iPhone's Face ID mechanism, which lets you unlock the phone and pay for goods by scanning your face.
Samsung removed the iris scanner from its Galaxy phones, but gave the Galaxy S10 5G a 3D sensor on the front and back.
The company said it was there for AR purposes and maybe some improved depth photography, as with the newly announced Huawei P30 Pro, which has a time-of-flight sensor (TOF) on the back.
Andrew Hoyle/CNET Rumor has it that Android Q could fold in this technology.
If it does, the Galaxy Note 10 would be perfectly positioned to be Samsung's first phone to have secure face-scanning software baked in.
Remember that Android's default face unlock is there for convenience, but isn't secure enough for mobile payments.
3.
Standalone night mode camera Oh, Samsung.
A few years ago, its camera technology was virtually untouchable, but now Google's Pixel 3 and Huawei's P30 Pro have leapfrogged the Galaxy S10 Plus on low-light photography with standalone night modes.
The results speak for themselves: Rival phones' photos are clear and bright, with sharp edges and not a lot of overproduction.
All is not lost.
Samsung is well aware of the competition and has almost certainly been working on its own take.
The Note 10, which has traditionally been Samsung's pinnacle release before Back to School and holiday shopping kicks in, would be an appropriate, launch pad, if not a belated one.
And how about boosted video quality?
Read: Note 10 camera: Three clues it could flip up, three it might not Now playing: Watch this: P30 Pro and Galaxy S10 cameras compared 4.
In-screen fingerprint sensor accuracy The ultrasonic in-screen fingerprint reader on the Galaxy S10 and S10 Plus is, in theory, a wonderful application of ultrasonic technology (think ultrasounds) to securely unlock your phone and authenticate mobile payments.
In practice, it's a little slow and largely inaccurate, requiring multiple attempts to unlock the phone.
It also doesn't work as well as promised if you've got wet or greasy fingertips.
And one of the biggest security claims, that you can't trick it with a fake fingerprint, has just been challenged by someone claiming they have.
The Note 10 is another chance to tweak the software, or work with Qualcomm, which supplies the ultrasonic tech, on some other fix.
Now playing: Watch this: Why the Galaxy S10's ultrasonic fingerprint reader matters 5.
5G speeds are a proba-possibility Most of the Galaxy S10 phones are 4G, not 5G-ready, and that's how it should be.
Samsung has a 5G version that'll come out this summer, which is plenty.
There are several reasons why being the earliest 5G adopter isn't a great idea.
One of those reasons is the 5G chip inside the phone, which takes up space and locks the phone to a single network.
Qualcomm, which makes the 5G chip as well as the Snapdragon 855 processor inside the Galaxy phones, is launching an upgrade later this year that will make 5G phones sleeker and also able to cruise multiple carrier networks.
It's possible the Note 10 will be the first phone to use it.
Andrew Hoyle/CNET 6.
Foldable design with S Pen support Will the Galaxy Note 10 be a foldable phone like the Galaxy Fold?
Not by a long shot.
But it's worth thinking about how the S Pen, Samsung's digital stylus, could work with a foldable screen.
Especially since that feels like a foregone conclusion for a future Samsung device.
On the one hand you have the Note, whose S Pen takes advantage of a large screen by allowing for navigation, writing and drawing.
On the other, the foldable design opens up the largest screens on a cellular device.
The nature of the foldable screen as an expansive surface with Android support for up to three active windows at a time, makes it a fertile ground for a digital pen.
Samsung Whether a future foldable Note would be called the Galaxy Fold Note or simply a Galaxy Fold with S Pen support, it could provide extra utility along the lines of Apple Pencil support for the iPad Pro and the Microsoft Surface pen.
An S Pen on a foldable Note would also differentiate it from other foldable phones such as the Huawei Mate X or a future foldable iPhone.
Galaxy Note 10 rumors so far What's on your Galaxy Note 10 wish list?
Article originally posted April 8 at 4 a.m. PT.
Marvel With a new live-action series focused on Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen) and The Vision (Paul Bettany) called WandaVision headed to the new Disney Plus streaming service -- as well as a show just for Falcon and Winter Soldier -- Marvel fans are pondering which other superhero series could be on the horizon.
While Disney is still deciding how many other Marvel characters to focus on, we have our own list of female superheroes we think deserve their own Disney Plus series.
Enlarge Image Marvel 1.
She-Hulk When lawyer Jennifer Walters gets an emergency blood transfusion from her cousin Dr. Bruce Banner, she ends up getting a milder case of his Hulk condition.
Unlike Hulk, Walters can keep her emotions in check when she transforms into She-Hulk.
The lawyer-by-day, vigilante-by-night angle worked well for the Marvel character Daredevil in the hit Netflix series, so why not She-Hulk?
Perhaps Disney can relaunch She-Hulk as a Law & Order-type drama, or maybe even an Ally McBeal comedy.
In the comics, She-Hulk was also a member of the Avengers, the Fantastic Four, the Defenders and S.H.I.E.L.D., so the crossover potential is endless.
2.
Black Widow Natalia "Natasha" Romanova/Black Widow (played by Scarlett Johansson in the MCU) was a Russian spy and adversary to Iron Man.
She ultimately defected to the US and joined S.H.I.E.L.D.
Later, she became an important member of the Avengers.
Black Widow is already getting her own prequel movie where we see how she transformed from spy to superhero.
We're already getting a Black Widow movie, but what about a Disney Plus series with Black Widow as a teenager?
High school Natasha Romanova could be like Riverdale with a lot more fighting.
Enlarge Image Marvel Films 3.
The Dora Milaje The warrior women of Wakanda from Black Panther are fierce and fabulous, so why not give them their own women-centric spin-off series?
Black Panther director Ryan Coogler recently commented that he'd be interested in making a spin-off movie about them.
Even the real-world 19th-century Dahomey Warriors -- the all-female military regiment who inspired the Dora Milaje -- are getting a TV series.
It would be interesting to see how the Dora Milaje came to be, before Wakanda was revealed to the outside world.
4.
Female Thor Looks like Thor isn't the only one who can wield a mighty hammer.
In the comics, female Thor is none other than Thor's former love interest Jane Foster (Natalie Portman), who is suffering from breast cancer.
Jane picked up Thor's hammer when she was in the middle of treatments, and somehow his magical powers are now hers.
This series could end up being a very interesting origin story where we see Jane using Mjolnir and gaining Thor's powers.
Enlarge Image Marvel 5.
Gamora Then there's the female space assassin Gamora (Zoe Saldana) in Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy movies.
Her character's complex history would make for an ideal Disney Plus series, particularly if the show focused on why she's the last of her species (Zen-Whoberis) after everyone was exterminated by the Badoon.
Overcoming her tragic past to later rise up as one of the deadliest assassins in the universe is inspiring to say the least.
6.
Danielle Moonstar It's about time fans were introduced to one of the first female Native American characters in a series all her own.
Danielle Moonstar is a mutant raised as part of the Cheyenne Nation.
Under the guidance of X-Men's Professor Xavier, she learned to hone her ability to create images of people's greatest fears.
This series could either focus on her life with other teen mutants at the school, or the superhero she became later as an adult.
7.
A-Force The Avengers might have felt like the superhero all-stars in their heyday, but the all-female A-Force is even cooler.
This lineup consists of Captain Marvel, Dazzler, Medusa, She-Hulk, Singularity, Nico Minoru and a female Thor who band together to fight evil.
That alone sounds like the best series ever.
Enlarge Image Marvel Animation 8.
Spider-Gwen Peter Parker's flame Gwen Stacy is living her own web-slinging adventures as Spider-Gwen in an alternate universe.
It would be refreshing to have a Spider-Man series with a female lead for a change.
9.
Misty Knight When police officer Misty Knight lost her arm in battle, she soon got an bionic arm and became the kind of superhero New York City deserved.
We've already seen her character (played by Simone Missick) impress fans in the Netflix series Luke Cage, but it might be time to shine the spotlight more on Misty to tell her full story.
10.
The Black Cat Not all Disney Plus series have to be about superheroes.
Why not focus on a female villainess for a change?
Marvel character Felicia Hardy, aka Black Cat, is an accomplished criminal but she occasionally aligns herself with Spider-Man when it suits her interests.
11.
The Valkyries Fans got a glimpse of the female demi-goddesses known as the Valkyries in the 2017 movie Thor: Ragnarok.
Actor Tessa Thompson stole the movie as the hard-drinking character Scrapper 142, previously a legendary Valkyrie warrior.
A prequel series all about this character could show how the Valkyries came to be, and why they were ultimately defeated.
Originally published Nov. 15, 2018.
Update, April 11: Adds new Disney Plus information.
The Planetary Society Robotic "power beaming" landers on the surface of Venus, micro-probes inspired by spiders, a self-healing spacesuit and mining the lunar poles are all projects NASA has recently greenlit for further development.
Though many of the selected projects from the NASA Innovative Advanced Concepts (NIAC) program seem like they're ripped from the pages of the best science fiction novels (I'm looking at you, Heinlein and Asimov), there is a chance they will be made a reality in the next decade.
The NIAC program provides awards up to $500,000 to develop revolutionary technologies that will benefit human spaceflight and cosmic exploration missions.
In the 2019 round, NIAC has selected 12 projects for Phase I awards, valued at around $125,000, and six Phase II awards, valued up to $500,000.
Phase I studies are exploratory, nine-month projects that allow researchers to further develop their ideas, while Phase II studies give them a two-year window to advance their technologies even further and outline how they might bring the ideas to life.
NASA/JPL-Caltech The Venus lander concept consists of a "dual vehicle architecture" that would see a floating spacecraft collect energy from the Venusian atmosphere and then descend toward Venus's surface to "beam" that energy to a lander.
The idea would extend missions to Venus's surface by supplying the lander with a constant source of energy in an environment that is particularly nasty for Earthly visitors.
Another project will see Texas A&M engineers work on a new type of spacesuit they've dubbed the SmartSuit.
It would be designed to enhance motion and dexterity but would also contain a number of soft-robotics technologies, sensors and a self-healing skin that doubles as a screen.
After the brouhaha over NASA's spacesuit sizing, this concept might be able to kill two space birds with one space stone.
One of the more interesting concepts takes its inspiration from ballooning spiders -- the kind that shoot silk into the air to catch a wind current.
The proposed tiny probes would work together in the thousands, weigh about 50 milligrams and float underneath a string loop about 200 meters long.
Releasing the spider probes into the atmosphere during future planetary missions would allow researchers to get a better picture of what makes them up and how they came to be.
On top of that, there are 15 other projects all vying to go from idea to reality including lunar mining outposts (particularly important with NASA's commitment to get back to the moon by 2024), neutrino detectors, lightsails and nuclear probes for deep space exploration.
It's a buffet of science fiction concepts and I am dining on the potential.
Of course, NIAC is intended to provide the foundation for furthering technologies and there's always the chance that our spider probes and innovative Venus landers don't get to go from clever idea to tangible reality.
Some will most certainly remain dreams (or sci-fi fodder)!
NASA will hand out Phase III grants on June 7, which will provide another two years of concept development for projects with the highest potential impact for NASA.
You can peruse the full list of concepts at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory blog.
Originally published 6.21 p.m. April 10
We cover it all, click your favorite
Screenshot by CNET via HBO/YouTube Welcome back to your guide to finding out what's new online.
Every week, we put together a podcast that lets you know what's been added to services like Netflix, Hulu and HBO Now.
The audio is about a minute or two long.
Since you're reading this, let's give you some extra information not found in the podcast: The new Hellboy movie is out (check out our review here).
If you want to catch the original movies online, you're in luck.
The 2004 edition of Hellboy is up at Netflix.
Hellboy II: The Golden Army can be found on Hulu.
Want to know what else is new?
Listen to this guy: Thrones, Bear Grylls and more coming up Your browser does not support the audio element.
For more information on what's available to watch online, check out CNET.com/Netpicks or subscribe to the podcast -- it's free!
And go to TVGuide.com to see what else is out in the world of streaming.
Now playing: Watch this: What's new to stream in April 2019 Audio (weekly): RSS | iTunes | Google Play Video (monthly): iTunes (HD) | iTunes (HQ) | iTunes (SD) | RSS (HD) | RSS (HQ)| RSS (SD)
SpaceIL/IAI Israel's Beresheet would have been the most unlikely lunar lander in history, but the spacecraft didn't survive its reach for the moon's surface Thursday.
SpaceIL's live broadcast followed the tense maneuvers needed to get the lunar lander down to the Sea of Serenity on the near side of the moon.
The Beresheet team members worked in the control room as Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu watched from a spectator area.
The landing process suffered some glitches when the main engine cut out and mission control lost communication.
The disappointed team reacted calmly to the failure.
Now playing: Watch this: Israel's Beresheet spacecraft crashes on the moon The failed mission will be remembered as bittersweet.
"Well, we didn't make it, but we definitely tried, and the achievement of getting where we got is really tremendous," said Morris Khan, an Israeli entrepreneur who provided a large portion of the funding for Beresheet, as he addressed the observers near the control room.
"We can be proud."
NASA commended the mission in a tweet: "We congratulate SpaceIL, Israel Aerospace Industries and the state of Israel on the accomplishment of sending the first privately funded mission into lunar orbit."
Buzz Aldrin, Apollo 11 pilot, also had kind words.
"Never lose hope.
Your hard work, teamwork, and innovation is inspiring to all," he tweeted.
While @NASA regrets the end of the @TeamSpaceIL mission without a successful lunar landing, we congratulate SpaceIL, Israel Aerospace Industries and the state of Israel on the accomplishment of sending the first privately funded mission into lunar orbit.
https://t.co/XwHpN5M8Pu pic.twitter.com/cfMtP4srDr Jim Bridenstine (@JimBridenstine) April 11, 2019 This was a mission of firsts.
Beresheet was to be Israel's first moon lander, which would have put the country in an exclusive club that includes the US, Soviet Union and China.
In addition, nonprofit SpaceIL would have been the first private, nongovernment group to set a lander on the moon's surface.
SpaceIL was originally conceived to compete in Google's Lunar X Prize which, in 2007, threw down a challenge to private companies to build a spacecraft that could land on the moon.
The original deadline to claim the $30 million in prize money was originally 2014, but it was extended out until 2018 before an announcement that the prize would go unclaimed.
Although SpaceIL didn't quite make the deadline, the X Prize foundation was inspired by its attempt, creating a new prize dubbed the Moonshot Award.
Originally, the foundation stated "for their achievement upon landing on the moon", X Prize would hand SpaceIL the first Moonshot Award -- and $1 million.
Of course, Beresheet did not make it to the surface in one piece but it did still land -- albeit with a little more force than hoped.
As a result, the foundation said it would still be providing SpaceIL with the cash.
They may not have had a successful landing this time, but @TeamSpaceIL has still made history.
They will be the recipients of our first ever $1M Moonshot Award, in honor of their achievements and their milestone as the first privately-funded entity to orbit the Moon.
#moonshot pic.twitter.com/ErUfjqvvxY XPRIZE (@xprize) April 11, 2019 Beresheet launched on Feb. 21 on a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket and overcame a brief technical glitch along the way.
The lander was designed to take pictures of its surroundings and measure the moon's magnetic field.
It was even able to snap one final, breathtaking image as it approached the lunar surface and beam it back to Earth.
SpaceIL and Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI) had placed a time capsule in the lander filled with digital files covering Israel's history and heritage.
That time capsule was likely lost along with the spacecraft.
The dream didn't quite come to fruition, but Beresheet's journey to lunar orbit was still an important moment in space history that made the moon feel more in reach for the world.
Originally published April 11, 12:32 p.m. PT.
Update, 6:40 p.m. PT: Adds traditional information regarding X Prize and Beresheet's final image.
Elad Raston/Twitter It was a bittersweet end for SpaceIL's Beresheet probe, the first privately funded lunar lander humans have sent to the moon.
During the landing attempt on Thursday, the main engine cut out and communication was lost, ultimately resulting in Beresheet crashing into the moon's surface.
But before its untimely demise, Beresheet was able to turn its camera toward the lunar surface one final time to snap a stunning last image of the moon's surface.
Elad Raston, a diplomat at the Israel Foreign Ministry, tweeted that he had received "what appears to be the last image" that the spacecraft sent back to Earth before it failed.
Just received from SpaceIL communication team what appears to be the last image #Beresheet spacecraft managed to beam to earth before it crashed on the moons surface pic.twitter.com/yDx2ioZiXy Elad Ratson (@EladRatson) April 11, 2019 Landing on the face of another space rock is a decidedly difficult process.
Although the lander did not achieve its core mission of a soft moon landing, it was still marked with a number of important firsts.
Beresheet was the first private spacecraft to insert itself into lunar orbit and made Israel the seventh nation to achieve such a feat.
The robotic explorers we send to new frontiers have a history of providing us with final images of other worlds before going gently (or violently) into the good night.
Opportunity, the deceased Mars rover, was also able to snap a breathtaking panorama of the Martian surface, before it succumbed to a dust storm in 2018.
Nearly 80% of business owners use the same financial services for personal and professional business, according to BAI.
Video: How the blockchain and smart contracts are changing the finance industry Caitlin Long spent 22 years on Wall Street.
The president of New York startup Symbiont explains how distributed ledger technology is forcing banks to innovate.
Nearly 80% of business owners using the same provider for both personal and business financial services, and these professionals expect a lot out of their financial representatives, according to a recent BAI report.
SEE: 10 ways to communicate more effectively with customers and co-workers (free PDF) (TechRepublic) The report surveyed 600 business owners to determine what they want from financial services firms.
As technology shifts, customers expect services to do the same: Nearly 70% of business owners said they would prefer to open a deposit account online, and nearly 50% would prefer to open a loan online, the report said.
The top three reasons business owners said they would choose a new financial services provider are lower fees, better rates, and a better understanding of business needs, according to the report.
Here are the top four customer experience improvements business owners want from their financial services, the report found: Improve the omnichannel experience Transform branches for better in-person experiences with experts to help achieve financial goals Deliver tools and options to customize solutions Provide more useful real-time content to manage day-to-day banking "Businesses need their financial services provider to make their banking experience easy, so they can focus on running their business," Karl Dahlgren, managing director of research for BAI, said in a press release.
"By listening to and understanding the voice of the customer, financial services leaders can seize an opportunity to stand out amongst the competition and provide unparalleled service offerings."
For more information on how technology is changing the financial client and advisor relationship, check out this TechRepublic article.
Tech News You Can Use Newsletter We deliver the top business tech news stories about the companies, the people, and the products revolutionizing the planet.
Delivered Daily Sign up today Sign up today Also see
With the onset of GDPR, privacy regulation compliance now tops talent shortages as the largest emerging business risk, according to Gartner.
Advice for companies that haven't yet complied with GDPR Interxion's Patrick Lastennet shares essential tips for SMBs that have not yet complied with the EU's new data protection regulation.
Complying with rapidly accelerating privacy regulations is the top emerging risk faced by organizations globally, even above the talent shortage, according to a Thursday report from Gartner.
The report surveyed 98 senior executives worldwide across industries, and found that these concerns about privacy regulations were spread across the globe.
"With the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) now in effect, executives realize that complying with privacy regulations is more complex and costly than first anticipated," Matt Shinkman, managing vice president and risk practice leader at Gartner, said in a press release.
"More budget dollars from IT, legal and information security are going to address GDPR compliance, just as the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) is set to take effect, adding another layer of complexity for companies to navigate in this area."
SEE: IT pro's guide to GDPR compliance (free PDF) (TechRepublic) A total of 64% of respondents indicated that accelerating privacy regulation was a top risk impacting their organization this quarter, with increased concern among executives from the banking, financial services, technology, and telecommunications industries, as well as the food, beverage, and consumer goods industries.
Here are the top five emerging risks businesses faced in Q1 2019, according to Gartner: Accelerating privacy regulation Pace of change Talent shortage Lagging digitization Digitization misconceptions This marks a major change from Q2 2018, when the top five concerns were cloud computing, cybersecurity, GDPR, AI/robotics skill gap, and global economic slowdown, the report found.
New regulations including GDPR and CCPA and laws enacted in Australia and Japan have made the path to full privacy compliance more difficult for many businesses, the survey found.
"We are now seeing an evolution from GDPR-specific concerns, which have been on executives' minds for the past couple of years, to a broader recognition that their organizations need to overhaul their entire data security governance strategies," Shinkman said in the release.
"GDPR compliance is really just the starting gun in this process, and not the finish line."
For more on GDPR, check out this TechRepublic cheat sheet.
Cybersecurity Insider Newsletter Strengthen your organization's IT security defenses by keeping abreast of the latest cybersecurity news, solutions, and best practices.
Delivered Tuesdays and Thursdays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Investors want more individualized experiences with financial advisors, according to a Broadridge report.
Bank of America's digital transformation is powered by Samsung displays Bank of America's Financial Center Manager VP Mike Derose shows off Samsung's massive and versatile Fine Pixel Pitch display technology.
With technological innovations creating more customized experiences across many industries, business users now expect that in all aspects of life, according to a Broadridge report released on Friday.
Technology has shifted social behaviors and business relationships, particularly between investors and financial advisors, the report found.
SEE: Digital transformation: An IT pro's guide (free PDF) (TechRepublic) The report surveyed more than 500 individuals who use financial advisors, determining that financial advisors must adapt to their clients' preferences to stay competitive.
Investors across generations have become used to individualized user experiences in other aspects of their lives, and now expect it from their financial advisors as well.
More than half (53%) of respondents reported some level of customization in their communications with financial advisors.
However, less than four in 10 respondents said the content was "engaging," and less than three in 10 reported the advice to be "actionable," the report found.
"As a result of technology transforming the customer experience, investors have come to expect a certain type and level of service no matter the industry or consumer relationship," Chris Perry, head of global client solutions at Broadridge Financial Solutions, said in a press release.
"It's clear investors want to interact with their advisors on social channels and want high-quality, engaging and actionable financial advice.
This presents a real opportunity for advisors to provide more personalized communication and experiences."
More than one-third of Millennial financial clients said they primarily use their smartphone to read advisor communications, while only 21% of Gen X clients and 7% of Baby Boomers said the same.
The later generations prefer to read communications on paper, the report found.
While the mode of consuming communication might be different, they all expect it to be individualized.
For advice on how finance leaders can embrace digital transformation, check out this TechRepublic article.
Next Big Thing Newsletter Be in the know about smart cities, AI, Internet of Things, VR, autonomous driving, drones, robotics, and more of the coolest tech innovations.
Delivered Wednesdays and Fridays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
As state-sponsored attackers increase their activity and cyberwar escalates, security researchers are focusing their attention on industrial systems to surface vulnerabilities.
What to include in an enterprise cybersecurity plan At RSA 2019, Steve Martino of Cisco discussed the top cybersecurity threats businesses are facing, and how to help employees improve their security posture.
The number of vulnerabilities discovered in industrial control systems (ICS) grew 30% in 2018 compared to the prior year, with the share of critical or high severity vulnerabilities increasing by 17%, according to a report from Positive Technologies published Thursday.
Targeting of devices used in industrial, energy infrastructure, and manufacturing settings has increased over the past several years, as state-sponsored groups have sought to gain access to industrial systems for espionage purposes.
The VPNFilter attack last year resulted in a flurry of accusations from the Ukrainian Security Service, calling out Russia as intending to destabilize the UEFA Champions League final.
SEE: Special report: Cyberwar and the future of cybersecurity (free PDF) (TechRepublic) In terms of newly-discovered vulnerabilities in 2018, Schneider Electric led with 69, followed closely by Siemens with 66.
Advantech and Moxa were third and fourth, with 37 and 36, respectively.
Industrial networking equipment, and HMI/SCADA equipment were tied for the most vulnerable component, at 23% each, followed closely by PLC/RTU devices at 21%.
"In 2018 we saw that industrial processes can be affected not only by targeted malware, such as Triton cyberweapon, but also by attacks against IT infrastructure," Paolo Emiliani, research analyst at Positive Technologies, said in a press release.
Emiliani also pointed to the LockerGoga ransomware attack, and the impact of WannaCry at Boeing and TSMC.
For more, check out "Vulnerabilities in industrial Ethernet switches allow for credential theft, denial-of-service attacks," and "Software vulnerabilities are becoming more numerous, less understood."
Top Story of the Day Newsletter If you can only read one tech story a day, this is it.
Delivered Weekdays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Albertsons is the latest grocery store to adopt the blockchain-based system for tracing food from farm to store shelf.
The blockchain is already transforming the food tech industry Foodshed.io CEO Daniel Beckmann explains how the blockchain is used to monitor crop production, and could greatly improve the quality of our global food supply.
IBM continues to expand the blockchain-based Food Trust network to improve the way food is traced from farm to grocery store, with Albertsons Companies piloting food safety measures in its 2,300 stores across the US, IBM announced this week.
The Food Trust, announced in 2017, already includes more than 80 brands aiming to bring blockchain-based traceability to the food supply chain, from producers to suppliers to retailers to consumers.
Others involved include Dole, Kroger, McCormick and Company, Nestl, Tyson Foods, Unilever, and Walmart.
SEE: What is blockchain?
Understanding the technology and the revolution (free PDF) (TechRepublic) The Trust represents an ideal application of blockchain, the distributed ledger technology upon which bitcoin is based.
Because members of the network can share digital, distributed, and immutable data, those across the supply chain can all trace and authenticate products and optimize processes, according to an IBM press release.
The Food Trust creates a digital record of transactions, including packaging dates, the temperature at which a product is shipped, and when it arrives in a grocery store.
IBM's Food Trust is built on Hyperledger Fabric-based open source technology, and uses permissioning to allow companies to set rules about who can see the data they upload, and maintain control over it.
The Food Trust is one of the largest, most active non-crypto blockchain networks currently in production, the release noted, and is available as a subscription service for food ecosystem members to join.
With more participants in this system, IBM aims to address a range of food supply issues, including efficiency, freshness, waste reduction, sustainability, and the ability to verify certifications like organic or fair trade, the release noted.
When a national food recall occurs, a system like this can help pull the impacted products off of shelves more efficiently.
More than five million food products digitized on the solution have already hit grocery store shelves, according to the release.
Albertsons Companies will pilot the Food Trust for tracing bulk romaine lettuce from one of its food distribution centers, with plans to expand to other food categories.
"Blockchain technology has the potential to be transformational for us as we further build differentiation on our fresh brand," Anuj Dhanda, CIO of Albertsons Companies, said in the release.
"Food safety is a very significant step.
In addition, the provenance of the products enabled by blockchainthe ability to track every move from the farm to the customer's basketcan be very empowering for our customers."
For more, check out Top 5: Business uses for blockchain on TechRepublic.
Next Big Thing Newsletter Be in the know about smart cities, AI, Internet of Things, VR, autonomous driving, drones, robotics, and more of the coolest tech innovations.
Delivered Wednesdays and Fridays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Codementor lists the struggling languages that may not be worth your time.
The best programming languages to learn in 2019: Top coding skills that pay you the most These are the languages that are in the highest demand and offer the highest salaries.
While there's no definitive worst or best programming language, if you're looking to learn a language that's in demand and with an active community, some are better than others.
Codementor has compiled a list of languages struggling to attract developers or interest from employers.
The so-called "Worst Programming Languages to Learn in 2019" list is the latest in the site's annual round-up, with Codementor stressing the list reflects languages that are a poor choice to learn as a first language.
These sorts of lists are always controversial, and one thing to bear in mind is you may not agree with the methodology used by Codementor, an online community for mentoring developers.
The methodology used is explained at the end of the article.
SEE: 10 ways to prevent developer burnout (free PDF) (TechRepublic) While the worst five languages to learn are listed below, there are some other surprising callouts in the list, with some widely used and often praised languages finding their way into the worst 20.
Big names that took a dive Kotlin Despite Kotlin being celebrated for offering Java developers a more modern and enjoyable language to code in, Codementor say it jumped from the 18th to the 11th worst language to learn.
While Kotlin is a fully supported language for Android development, Codementor says there was only middling community engagement for the language and so-so job prospects.
Combined with a slip in the language's prospect for growth, by Codementor's estimation, this was enough to see the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) targeted language climb the rankings of worst languages.
R The statistical analysis language R also had a bad year by Codementor's reckoning, with the data science-focused language climbing to 12th on the list.
Codementor attributes this poor showing to its lackluster growth last year and falling community engagement.
While R also dropped one place in this year's RedMonk Programming Rankings, RedMonk analysts cautioned against reading too much into the slip, saying the language continued to serve a "vibrant base of analytical and data science use cases".
Is there a Ruby renaissance?
Despite Ruby's fortunes taking a knock of late, the language, once popular among web developers, did enjoy a small turnaround last year, according to Codementor.
The language fell three places to the 17th worst programming language to learn, which Codementor attributes to strong community engagement and job demand, enough to offset its poorer showing in Codementor's growth and trends category.
The worst programming languages to learn in 2019 according to Codementor 1.
Elm What is it?
Aimed primarily at web developers, Elm is functional language that compiles to JavaScript, and is designed to make it easier to create web apps.
Why Codementor says you shouldn't learn it: Multiple reasons, chiefly they say it has the fourth worst community engagement, falling growth, and although the job prospects for Elm improved slightly, it was still ranked as the fifth worst language in the job-market category.
What other language surveys say: Not very much, Elm doesn't figure in this year's round-up of languages by Stack Overflow or RedMonk.
2.
CoffeeScript What is it?
Again, primarily a web development language, CoffeeScript compiles into JavaScript and is designed to improve on JavaScript's readability.
Why Codementor says you shouldn't learn it: Codementor is scathing about CoffeeScript's community engagement, naming it the worst language for engagement last year.
It also says the language's already poor growth took a nosedive over the year, arguing "CoffeeScript's heyday is further behind it than that of other languages".
While job prospects also worsened, Codementor says there are still jobs seeking CoffeeScript skills.
What other language surveys say: Only mentioned in passing in this year's RedMonk Programming Language Rankings, with a note that CoffeeScript is less popular than Rust.
It also features in the lower echelons of the Tiobe Index of 100 popular languages.
3.
Erlang What is it?
Erlang was created by the Swedish telecoms firm Ericsson almost three decades ago to help build telephony applications.
Designed to support large-scale routing of telephone calls and handle faults without collapsing, it's suited to building reliable and scalable applications.
Why Codementor says you shouldn't learn it: Erlang saw the largest decline in community engagement over the course of the year, with interest in the language also dropping, even relative to others in its functional language niche.
Ranked the fourth worst language to learn in terms of job demand, Codementor points out that while there are still more Erlang developers than jobs available, that demand for developers isn't growing as fast as other languages.
What other language surveys say: A big caveat to Codementor's judgement is the salary for roles associated with Erlang, with Erlang being the ninth highest-paid language and the 22nd "most loved" language according to this year's Stack Overflow Developer Survey.
However, Erlang also experienced a precipitous drop in The Tiobe Index over the course of last year, falling from number 23 to 50.
4.
Lua What is it?
A lightweight, embeddable scripting language that is commonly used in games and offers decent performance relative to other scripting languages.
Why Codementor says you shouldn't learn it: While community engagement for Lua rose last year, it had flat growth and was ranked second worst for job demand, with Codementor saying "there are still more Lua developers than there is demand for them".
What other language surveys say: Rated 30th in the Tiobe Index of popular programming languages.
5.
Perl What is it?
Popular for web server scripting, sysadmin jobs, network programming and automating various tasks, Perl has been used since the late 1980s.
Why Codementor says you shouldn't learn it: Worsening community engagement, declining growth, and supply outstripping demand in the job market are the primary reasons given, with Codementor saying "Perl is facing a downward trend in terms of developer interest".
What other language surveys say: Perl has long been in the top 20 of the Tiobe Index of popular programming languages, and placed at number 14th in this April's index, while also charting 18th in the RedMonk Programming Language Rankings for this year.
The list of worst programming languages to learn is based on Codementor ranking each language in terms of its community engagement: based on activity on GitHub, Twitter, Stack Overflow, Facebook, Freenode, and Reddit, growth: based on Google Trends and Stack Overflow Trends, and job market: with demand based on stackshare.io, techstacks.io, and CodementorX client requests and supply based on Stack Overflow's 2018 Developer Survey and results from CodementorX's proprietary data.
Image: Codementor Next Big Thing Newsletter Be in the know about smart cities, AI, Internet of Things, VR, autonomous driving, drones, robotics, and more of the coolest tech innovations.
Delivered Wednesdays and Fridays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Victoria Police's head of reactive online communications details how his team delivered real-time emergency services through social listening.
On November 9, 2018, Australia was rocked by an act of violence on a busy street in Melbourne.
As the incident played out through live-streams on phones, computers, and televisions across the country, it became known as the Bourke Street terrorist attack.
In what was an otherwise standard Friday, social media was flooded with posts about the incident.
While many were concerned over an increased police presence, gun shots, road closures, and the whereabouts of loved ones, others were quick to jump to conclusions as to what had happened.
Videos and pictures of the incident quickly appeared online and so did inaccurate information.
Victoria Police made an important call that day: The force decided to use social media to its advantage.
While a terrorist attack and a brand issue couldn't be further apart in terms of their severity, the fundamental processes for managing the two are comparable.
According to Victoria Police head of reactive online communications, Mark Bayly, social media is crucial in a crisis such as the Bourke Street attack as it is the number one online consumer engagement channel.
Obviously nirvana normally has the force as the sole distributor of information at a time like this, but Bayly and his team knew that wouldn't be the case and instead moved quickly to be the trusted source.
SEE: Social media policy (Tech Pro Research) Timing is everything At 16.21 AEDT on November 9, 2018, Bayly received a call informing him there was a car explosion on Bourke Street and that it was unknown if it was terrorism-related.
Bayly told the Salesforce World Tour in Sydney that he needed to release a statement with urgency containing even just the smallest of details Victoria Police had at its disposal.
At 16.29 AEDT the police published a statement.
Bayly said it was important to tell the community something was occurring and that the police was on top of things.
(Screenshot: Asha McLean/TechRepublic) Victoria Police uses Salesforce Social Studio to organise its social media footprint.
Usually, the organisation receives around 50,000 comments per week that is, without an incident of this scale.
When a terrorism incident or category one crime is identified, Victoria Police stands up a Police Operations Centre, full of media, intelligence, strategy, safety, and tactical staff around 70-80 people in a room working together.
"So that feed of communications from the media department ... one of my team members sits up there, feeds information back down to the reactive team where we're working and moderating Social Studio," Bayly explained, noting he also had staff at the scene as he knew there would shortly be a press conference.
"We need to have people out there to live-stream to both Facebook and Twitter.
"18 months ago the executive command of Victoria Police would have been hesitant about having live-streaming of their media conferences they now demand that we're there because they know the power of that communication process."
At 17.25 AEDT Victoria Police issued its first formal response.
At 18.04 AEDT Superintendent David Clayton held a media conference that was live-streamed to both Twitter and Facebook.
(Screenshot: Asha McLean/TechRepublic) At 19.06 AEDT an exclusion zone map was published.
Bayly said it was basically another point of public reassurance and direction to stay away from the area.
It was shortly followed by another media conference, this time in a room with the Premier and the Chief of Police.
(Screenshot: Asha McLean/TechRepublic) At around 22.00 AEDT the second and final for the day media release with new information was provided.
"This would be the final update for the evening, but we knew we were in for a couple of long days it wasn't going to stop that night," Bayly said.
Citizen detectives and crowd-sourced intel Bayly's team were curating posts containing dozens of key words, not just the obvious "Bourke Street" or "terrorist".
Common themes in the comments, he said, were terrorism, bail laws, praise for Victoria Police, "police should have shot the offender sooner", drug use, mental health, the offender known to police, anti-Islam, immigration, anti-refugees, fake news, and trolley man.
Every post on social media containing these words, and many others, were isolated by the team and pulled in as evidence.
Across the weekend, Victoria Police had a total of 14 Facebook posts viewed by close to two million people and 10 tweets produce more than a million impressions.
Bayly also oversees the force's public evidence submission site, which is a digital asset management system open to the public to upload photos and videos.
"We're able to see it all in a screenshot and then later on I can actually license the investigators of this particular incident.
They can pull out any of those videos and stills behind the police firewall where it becomes police evidence," he explained.
"So we trigger the public evidence submission site.
It's run by Microsoft Azure, so it sits in the cloud and you can look at all those images up there without download loading them all behind the firewall."
When media is uploaded, the citizen has to enter details that drive accountability.
It also allows for police to contact them should they need to be called as a witness.
"Footage of the actual incident that for example that came into our digital asset management system of the guy trying to stab the police officers.
He was then shot," Bayly explained, showing footage to the audience up until the suspect being shot.
With Australia rushing the passing of new laws that ban the sharing of abhorrent material on social media, which followed Facebook users taking 29 minutes to report a live-streamed video from the Christchurch terrorist attack, having an out-of-public-sight repository is important.
SEE: Why the tech industry is wrong about Australia's video streaming legislation (ZDNet) Building a following While Bayly classed the activities from his team around the Bourke Street incident as successful, it was made possible through the actions of the social media crew leading up to the attack.
Sharing an anecdote, Bayly detailed how months prior to the incident, police had issued a warrant for a man called Daniel.
"He actually commented back to us and said, 'Can you use a better photo, though?
This is a horrible mug shot'," he recalled.
"I went back and said, 'Hi Daniel, please visit your nearest police station and we'll arrange for a photo to be taken of you'.
Funnily enough, Daniel turned up not too long after."
(Image: Victoria Police) The post and Daniel's response went "wild", Bayly said.
"It went viral around the world but, you know, this is the engagement that we're after.
Why do we do this?
Because we want people to be there in a time of crisis," he continued.
(Screenshot: Asha McLean/TechRepublic) Victoria Police's most successful post was during the 30 year anniversary of Back to the Future, with a post reaching 6.5 million people.
"An amazing statistic before Facebook changed its algorithms, of course but nonetheless we just did a mock arrest of Marty McFly and my boss at the time said, 'What the f are you doing?'
and I said the reason we're doing this is so we've got them there in a moment when something like [Bourke Street] occurs," Bayly said.
As Salesforce social specialist Charlie Roe added during Bayly's presentation, it's important to listen to the conversations that are happening in the social media sphere.
"If you're not listening to social, you're not really going to pick up all the sentiment, the conversations that are happening around your brand.
You're not going to realise any problems, you're not going to be able identify any issues," Roe said.
Bayly added that there is a lot of negativity received through its social media platforms, but said nonetheless it's about using the power of social media for Victoria Police's benefit.
Where to now?
From an omni-channel point of view, Victoria Police has just launched another engagement platform through Facebook Messenger.
It now reaches citizens through Facebook, Messenger, YouTube, Twitter, and Instagram.
"An artificially intelligent driven bot where we can push stuff out now because we know Facebook is only going to get to about 1% of people in the news feed," Bayly said of the Messenger addition.
"So you've got to look at an omni-channel approach.
"Commentary in the first month increased by 645% as a result of launching Messenger on February 11.
So when I talk about intense resourcing of social media it's a hell of a job."
TechRepublic Australia Wrapper Newsletter Each week make sure you keep up to date on all the essential developments from Australia.
Delivered Thursdays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Wireless speeds are about to get a lot faster thanks to the introduction of Wi-Fi 6 later this year.
Learn how Wi-Fi 6 will impact business professionals and users.
Wi-Fi 6: How the next generation of home and office wireless will change your online experience Wi-Fi 6 will be faster, but it will also be more stable, have better range, and serve more devices at the same time thanks to some new and improved technologies.
WI-Fi 6, due for release later in 2019, is supposed to make Wi-Fi networks faster, more reliable, and more energy efficient than ever, but what exactly does that mean?
Wi-Fi 6 is the Wi-Fi Alliance's name for 802.11ax under its new naming scheme that is designed to make Wi-Fi generations easier to understand for the average computer user.
Wi-Fi 6 will be replacing Wi-Fi 5 (802.11ac), which replaced Wi-Fi 4 (802.11n) as the standard for Wi-Fi speed in 2013.
It's easy to get confused about what Wi-Fi 6 is and how it will improve upon older Wi-Fi standards, especially with the coming release of 5G wireless technology.
With Wi-Fi 6 and 5G emerging onto the market at roughly the same time, it would make sense that they're somehow related; while both promise similar improvements, they're distinctly different technologies.
This Wi-Fi 6 cheat sheet will help dispel the confusion surrounding Wi-Fi 6, its place in our modern wireless world, and how it will be used once it's rolled out in 2019.
We'll update this article when new information about Wi-Fi 6 is available.
Note: This article can also be downloaded as a free PDF.
What is Wi-Fi 6?
Wi-Fi 6 is the next evolution of wireless local area network (WLAN) technology.
The name Wi-Fi 6 is part of a new naming convention the Wi-Fi Alliance imposed on Wi-Fi standards to make them more easily understood by Wi-Fi users, making it much like the 3G/4G/5G naming convention used by cellular data networks.
Behind the Wi-Fi 6 name is the latest version of the 802.11 wireless networking standard: 802.11ax.
This new Wi-Fi standard is reportedly up to 30% faster than Wi-Fi 5, but speed hasn't been the main benefit touted by the Wi-Fi Alliance and other industry experts; Wi-Fi 6 also brings lower latency, more simultaneously deliverable data, and improved power efficiency.
In order to provide these changes, Wi-Fi 6 is improving on and introducing new technology.
SEE: Wireless networking policy (Tech Pro Research) Wi-Fi 6 will be the first iteration of 802.11 to include Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access (OFDMA), which is an improvement on Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM).
OFDM is used by Wi-Fi 5, 4, and older standards to encode and transmit data.
In essence, OFDM allows multiple clients or access points (APs) to contend for the ability to transmit data; once the network is idle, data can be transmitted.
OFDM is a popular and reliable way to decentralize access, but it has a major problem: It can lead to serious latency.
SEE: All of TechRepublic's cheat sheets and smart person's guides Enter OFDMA, which makes a major change from OFDM: It puts transmission coordination in the hands of 802.11ax APs.
The AP centrally schedules data transmission and is able to further divide frequencies in order to transmit data to/from multiple clients at the same time.
The goal behind OFDMA is to reduce latency and increase network efficiencyespecially in high-demand environments like stadiums, conference halls, and other public spaces.
Because OFDMA broadcasts multiple signals at the same time, it can also increase the unit interval, which means outdoor Wi-Fi deployments will be faster and more reliable as well.
Wi-Fi 6 will extend the capabilities of Multi-User Multi-Input/Multi-Output (MU-MIMO).
MU-MIMO was previously available only for downstream connections and allowed for a device to send data to multiple receivers at the same time; Wi-Fi 6 will add MU-MIMO capabilities to upstream connections as wellthis will allow more simultaneous devices on one network.
Wi-Fi 6 will also: Increase the number of transmit beamforming streams to eight in order to increase network range and throughput; use both the 2.4 GHz and 5GHz bands simultaneously to greatly improve performance; use 1024 quadrature amplitude modulation (1024-QAM) to increase throughput for emerging use cases (Wi-Fi 5 uses 256-QAM); implement individual target wake time (TWT) to improve battery life and reduce power consumption for Wi-Fi devices; and introduce spatial reuse technology that will allow devices to more easily access a Wi-Fi network in order to transmit data.
Check out the Wi-Fi Alliance's Wi-Fi 6 white paper for more technical details (registration required for PDF download).
Additional resources What is the difference between Wi-Fi 6 and 5G wireless?
With two next-generation wireless technologies coming in 2019, it's understandable if you're a bit confused.
Are Wi-Fi 6 and 5G mobile networks related?
If so, why are they both coming out now?
How, if in any way, are they similar?
5G and Wi-Fi 6 promise faster speeds, less latency, and more capacity, and there's even some overlap in the technology both use, like MU-MIMO and beamforming.
Those similarities aside, 5G and Wi-Fi 6 differ in two major ways: Use cases and scope of operation.
Wi-Fi 6 is a wireless local area network (WLAN) technology that is meant to operate in an office, a home, conference center, or other crowded public spaces.
5G is a wide-area network (WAN) technology that is designed for cellular data, edge computing, IoT applications, and other non-interior connections.
SEE: Must-read 5G coverage (TechRepublic on Flipboard) Another important distinction is the differences in Wi-Fi 6 and 5G's definitions of "generation."
Wi-Fi generational changes are additivethe older technology that made Wi-Fi 4 and Wi-Fi 5 possible still exists in Wi-Fi 6 routers, which means older devices that aren't Wi-Fi 6 compatible will still be able to use Wi-Fi 6 APs, albeit at lower Wi-Fi 5 or Wi-Fi 4 speeds.
5G is a completely new technology that isn't backwards compatible, which means that new hardware will be needed to broadcast and receive 5G signals.
Existing non-5G devices won't be able to connect to 5G networks, even at lower speeds.
According to Forbes, Wi-Fi 6 will also reportedly be up to four times faster than 5G in certain use cases, so 5G isn't likely to unseat Wi-Fi 6 as the preferred method of connecting to the internet when stationary.
As for use cases, 5G and Wi-Fi 6 will each have their niche, but analysts and industry experts have argued that the two will complement each other to create a larger, faster, and more accessible internet.
Additional resources What are the potential applications of Wi-Fi 6?
Wi-Fi 6's use cases are various and generally reflect existing Wi-Fi use cases, albeit with improvements.
The Wi-Fi Alliance mentions several use cases for Wi-Fi 6, which include: IoT hardware will benefit from Wi-Fi 6 through improved battery performance, better outdoor operation, and improved range; home Wi-Fi, which will be faster and more reliable thanks to increased throughput and superior coverage; improved in-vehicle Wi-Fi and A/V systems thanks to reduced latency that comes with OFDMA; stadiums and other public venues with Wi-Fi will see increased performance thanks to OFDMA's client transmission control and MU-MIMO's up/down capabilities; and environments with multiple APs belonging to different networks (malls, airports, etc.)
will have less signal interference to worry about thanks to transmit beamforming.
Wi-Fi 6 may also make wireless last-mile internet connections more plausible due to its superior speeds, ability to handle more users with less latency, and better outdoor performance.
Additional resources How can businesses take advantage of Wi-Fi 6?
The uses for Wi-Fi in the office and remote won't change much under Wi-Fi 6, outside of increased performance.
That doesn't mean Wi-Fi 6 won't be a boon to businesseson the contrary; Wi-Fi 6's new capabilities will be felt by employees and customers in multiple ways, including: 30% faster speeds will mean users are getting their content in less time; increased throughput will allow more simultaneous users; reduced latency means an increase in users won't necessarily kill speeds; Wi-Fi 6 APs operating in areas with high signal congestion won't be as affected by it, so users will experience a more reliable connection even in crowded environments; and superior outdoor service and increased range means Wi-Fi 6 networks will have fewer dead spots that interfere with both professional and customer Wi-Fi use.
Business leaders, as well as home users, shouldn't assume that it's going to be fast or easy to get the benefits of Wi-Fi 6.
APs and routers that support Wi-Fi 6 should begin appearing soon, but without Wi-Fi 6 compatible devices to take advantage of all the new features, the visible improvements will be minimal.
Additional resources When will Wi-Fi 6 be available?
The Wi-Fi Alliance will begin offering Wi-Fi 6 certification for 802.11ax devices in the third quarter of 2019, but that doesn't mean Wi-Fi 6 routers won't be available sooner.
D-Link and Asus announced 802.11ax routers way back at CES 2018, and the Asus model is available for purchase now.
As mentioned above, the benefits from using a Wi-Fi 6 router will be minimal until Wi-Fi 6 compatible client devices are available.
Don't rush out and buy that Asus router either802.11ax devices available now are part of Wi-Fi 6 wave one, which includes any devices released before the Wi-Fi Alliance starts its certification process.
Uncertified Wi-Fi 6 devices may lack certain features that would be industry standard for certification; as long as that certification isn't available, you don't quite know what you're buying.
If you're wondering when you'll be able to get your hands on a Wi-Fi 6 compatible smartphone or IoT device, you may have to wait even longer.
Device manufacturers will need to get their hands on 802.11ax-ready chipsets like the Qualcomm WCN3998, which Qualcomm planned to start demoing to manufacturers in late 2018.
As of October 2018, the WCN3998 was still going through the certification process, which means it could be a while until manufacturers are able to start building devices based around it.
Don't expect to see a Wi-Fi 6-ready smartphone until later in 2019possibly as late as Q3when the Wi-Fi Alliance starts certifying devices.
Additional resources Mobile Enterprise Newsletter BYOD, wearables, IoT, mobile security, remote support, and the latest phones, tablets, and apps IT pros need to know about are some of the topics we'll address.
Delivered Tuesdays and Fridays Sign up today Sign up today
If you depend on secure shell, learn how you can better protect your servers from SSH attacks.
Image: Jack Wallen If you allow Secure Shell (SSH) connections on your Linux servers, you know those servers can be vulnerable to brute force attacks.
There are a number of ways you can protect yourself from such attacks.
One way is by installing and using the denyhosts tool.
Denyhosts is an open source, log-based intrusion prevention security program for servers, which allows you to whitelist servers you never want to be blocked and can even alert you, via email, of any possible intrusion detection.
SEE: Information security policy template download (Tech Pro Research) I will walk you through the installation and configuration of denyhosts.
I'll demonstrate on Ubuntu Server 18.04, but the process is similar on any supported Linux platform.
Installation The installation of denyhosts is quite simple.
Log into your Ubuntu Server (or open a terminal window) and issue the following command: sudo apt-get install denyhosts -y That's all there is to the installation.
Configuration The first thing to do is whitelist any machine you want to ensure is never blocked.
This is crucial, so you don't wind up accidentally getting blocked on a valid desktop or server (Don't skip it).
To whitelist a machine, issue the command: sudo nano /etc/hosts.allow At the bottom of that file, add any machine for the whitelisting, like so: sshd: IP_ADDRESS Where IP_ADDRESS is the address to be whitelisted.
Add as many addresses as you want, one per line.
So, if you're whitelisting a number of hosts, those entries would look like: sshd: 192.168.1.1 sshd: 192.168.1.10 sshd: 192.168.1.100 Save and close that file.
Now we configure denyhosts, from within the denyhosts.conf file.
To do this, open the denyhosts config file with the command: sudo nano /etc/denyhosts.conf The first thing to configure (optionally) is the limits for login attempts.
You'll find the following configuration options: # Block each host after a number of failed login attempts DENY_THRESHOLD_INVALID = 5 # Block each host after the number of failed attempts exceeds this value DENY_THRESHOLD_VALID = 10 # Block each attempted failed root login after failed attempts exceed this valueDENY_THRESHOLD_ROOT = 1 # Block each host after the number of failed login attempts (for users found in # WORK_DIR/restricted-usernames) exceeds this value DENY_THRESHOLD_RESTRICTED = 1 Although I don't suggest changing those values, if you have a good reason, go ahead and edit them.
Next, you'll want to configure the email alert address.
In the same configuration file, look for the line: ADMIN_EMAIL = Configure the email address you want to receive those alerts.
By default, denyhosts uses the local SMTP delivery method (on port 25).
If this doesn't work for you, you can configure the following options (in the denyhosts.conf file) to suit your needs: SMTP_HOST = SMTP_PORT = SMTP_FROM = Once you've configured the necessary outgoing email options, save and close the file.
Restart and enable the denyhosts service with the commands: sudo systemctl restart denyhosts sudo systemctl enable denyhosts Watching the log file Out of the box, denyhosts logs to /var/log/auth.log.
You can watch that log, in real time, with the command: tail -f /var/log/auth.log You will see any successful SSH login attempts listed (Figure A), as well as any attacks (hopefully, you won't see those).
Testing The fastest way to test denyhosts is to attempt to log in from another server (one that hasn't been whitelisted) as the root user.
The connection will fail, and the IP address of the offending machine will automatically be added to /etc/hosts.deny.
That machine is officially blocked from connecting to the denyhosts-enabled server.
Attempt to log in with a valid username, and you won't be able to connect.
Unblocking To unblock an IP address, stop the denyhosts service with the command: sudo systemctl stop denyhosts You'll then need to then remove the IP address of the machine you want to unblock from the following locations: /etc/hosts.deny /var/lib/denyhosts/hosts /var/lib/denyhosts/hosts-restricted /var/lib/denyhosts/hosts-root /var/lib/denyhosts/hosts-valid /var/lib/denyhosts/users-hosts Once you've removed that IP address from the above list of files, restart denyhosts with the command: sudo systemctl start denyhosts You should be back to working order with the IP address in question.
Enjoy your improved SSH security.
Cybersecurity Insider Newsletter Strengthen your organization's IT security defenses by keeping abreast of the latest cybersecurity news, solutions, and best practices.
Delivered Tuesdays and Thursdays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Oracle's Autonomous Database may have database admins worried, but it shouldn't.
The DBA role in an automated world will change, but it won't be eliminated.
3 trends that will shape the future of the database market Redis Labs CEO, Ofer Bengal, spoke with TechRepublic about the rise of open source in the database market, the growth of non-relational databases, and the delivery of Database as a Service.
Database administrators (DBAs) are right to worry about automation.
A decade ago the rise of cloud computing took hardware management away from DBAs, leaving many worried about the future of DBAs in the era of virtualized servers.
Now in 2019 there's another database automation tool worrying DBAs: Oracle's Autonomous Database.
Unlike traditional databases, the Oracle Autonomous Database takes care of most mundane tasks, and even some of the more complicated ones, all on its own, taking yet another batch of responsibilities away from DBAs.
At first glance it makes sense for DBAs to be worried about autonomous databases: What would their role be in a world where databases manage themselves?
There's more to it than that, and DBAs need not be concerned about the loss of their positions.
That doesn't mean DBAs should rest on the laurels of their current skill set.
The era of automation we're entering will make the DBA role very different.
Oracle said it best in the advice they give for DBAs (PDF) in the era of autonomy: It's time to pivot away from data administration and become a data architect.
SEE: A guide to data center automation (ZDNet/TechRepublic special feature) | Download the PDF version (TechRepublic) What database automation will do Oracle is the first database company to release an automated product, but it most certainly won't be the last.
Since Oracle's approach to database automation is the only model we have to go on, that's how I'll be approaching the general idea of database automation.
Oracle's Autonomous Database "eliminates complexity, human error, and manual management, helping to ensure higher reliability, security, and more operational efficiency at the lowest cost," the company said.
The goal behind Oracle Autonomous Database is to eliminate a lot of the manual labor that DBAs had to do in the past, which in turn eliminates quite a bit of their day-to-day responsibilities, which haven't changed much in the past decade.
Oracle breaks its database automation into three areas: Self-driving , which means the database itself handles patching, upgrades, and tuning while the database is running, and without the need for any human intervention.
, which means the database itself handles patching, upgrades, and tuning while the database is running, and without the need for any human intervention.
Self-securing databases take care of all their own security needs.
They automatically encrypt data, handle security updates without the need for downtime, and protect against external and internal attacks.
databases take care of all their own security needs.
They automatically encrypt data, handle security updates without the need for downtime, and protect against external and internal attacks.
Self-repairing means that the database will "automatically detect and apply corrective actions to ensure nonstop access to your data."
It also uses Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) and cross-region Oracle Active Data Guard to increase uptime and smooth repairs.
Those and other changes, Oracle claims, can cut an enterprise's AWS bill in half if the company migrates to an Oracle Autonomous Database.
SEE: Data center automation research report 2018: Despite growth in data, automation adoption remains slow (Tech Pro Research) DBAs take note: Nowhere in Oracle's description of its Autonomous Database does it mention human administrators becoming obsolete.
As TechRepublic sister site ZDNet pointed out when the Oracle Autonomous Database was revealed in detail in October 2018, "the autonomous database won't model your data or create the schema.
While applying machine learning to a set of data could generate a skeletal schema, at some point, somebody needs to write some SQL statements to lock in the model.
While machine learning can spot disconnects in performance and costs, it won't spot whether end users are getting the answers that they really need."
What DBAs should do to prepare for the automated future of databases Like it or not, the role of the DBA is changing, and qualified DBAs who want to maintain or advance their positions will need to work on some new skills.
Oracle has an entire webpage dedicated to how Autonomous Database will affect DBAs, and it contains a lot of great advice.
For starters, DBAs need to stop thinking like maintenance workers and engineers who keep things operational, and more like data scientists.
Penny Avril, Oracle's VP of database project management even goes so far as to tell DBAs to drop the "B" and think of themselves more as "DAs," or data administrators.
"A data administrator isn't just keeping data in a database, but understands the importance of that data to key business stakeholders and in driving the business forward."
Learning more about how to turn managed data into actionable items is essential for future DBAs working inside an automated environment: That database is going to handle all the mundane work on its own, so be prepared to have more free time to experiment, explore, and analyze.
SEE: Machine automation policy guidelines (Tech Pro Research) In the ZDNet article referenced previously, author Tony Baer mentions that DBAs will have an additional challenge along with learning new skills: Showing executives eager to cut costs that they're still essential.
If you're concerned about your position being eliminated in favor of an automated database, don't fret.
Instead, start reading up on Oracle's information for DBAs and be ready to respond to any questions with just how automation will affect, and transform, your job.
Automated databases won't eliminate the need for administratorsit will make DBAs even more valuable by giving them more time for analytic work that can make business analytics even more effective.
The last thing an organization should do is get rid of the people who know how that data works.
Data Center Trends Newsletter DevOps, virtualization, the hybrid cloud, storage, and operational efficiency are just some of the data center topics we'll highlight.
Delivered Mondays and Wednesdays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
GuideStar and the Foundation Center recently combined forces to create Candid.
Find out how the nonprofit is using machine learning, data science and other tech.
How the merger of two data giants will benefit the social sector GuideStar and the Foundation Center recently combined forces to create Candid.
Find out how the nonprofit is using machine learning, data science and other tech.
Just recently, two powerful entities in the non-profit sector combined forces to create an unprecedented data collaboration.
GuideStar and the Foundation Center merged to form Candid.
I talked with Brad Smith, President of Candid, about the technology, data standards and research being used to help nonprofits and foundations make informed decisions.
The following is an edited transcript of our interview.
Brad: The power of the standardization of data is basically the ability to aggregate it across a sector which is a widely heterogenous sector.
When you look at foundations, for example, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation...it is light years larger and more complex than the vast majority of the 90,000 foundations in the United States.
So they are all very different and all describe what they do very differently so to be able to describe that with a common vocabulary is hugely powerful.
When it comes to non profits, there's more than 1.3 million in the US and many more in the world and they all do different activities and so the ability to have data standards to standardize this information allows you to understand and answer a really important question.
Like for example, what is the social sector doing about ocean conservation?
The standards allow you to answer that question across all these capital flows, all these types of givers and all they types of doers.
SEE: Artificial intelligence: Trends, obstacles, and potential wins (Tech Pro Research) Karen: Most nonprofits are front line service organizations that don't have much of an IT staff or the knowledge to employ new technology.
With Candid's help however, these groups don't have to reinvent the wheel...the information they need to learn and grow is at their fingertips.
Brad: The potential for data and technology in this sector is huge.
I think it's really the key to helping this sector function as more than just a sum of its parts.
The social sector is wonderful in its diversity but it can be very frustrating in it's degree of duplication.
We've all heard the story of the feeding program in a city where they duplicate efforts and could be better off if they combined and had one kitchen.
Or the ten different foundations that are funding the same organization without even knowing it and not funding the great organization next door.
So the ability to begin to rationalize the use of these resources gives non profits the things they need to do their work.
And it gets both individual and corporate funds a really quick and easy view of the landscape so they don't have to be the first person in history to fund a charter school.
We've never been closer and in part because of the technology.
We are using a lot of advanced technology, we have data scientists on staff and we are using machine learning as well.
The advantage of being a historical organization is we're able to adapt machine learning quickly because we have such large sets of training information that was curated over years by humans.
So you really can train algorithms on human coded data.
With the combination of the two organizations, we're gonna double down on that and serve the sectors in ways we think it needs to be served, and do much more than we could do separately up till now.
Big Data Insights Newsletter Master the fundamentals of big data analytics by following these expert tips, and by reading insights about data science innovations.
Delivered Mondays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
As the role of the CIO evolves, these professionals must ensure they have the business expertise to aid in digital transformation efforts.
How to create a digital culture At the 2018 MIT CIO Symposium, Liberty Mutual's Andrei Oprisan explained why legacy companies must adopt the culture of digital natives.
As a CIO's responsibilities shift from the technical to the business amid digital transformation efforts, these professionals must keep certain items top of mind on their to-do list to keep the business relevant, according to Moshe Kranc, CTO of Ness Digital Engineering.
Traditionally, the CIO's responsibilities were purely technical, and anyone on the business side who needed something had to go to them and ask.
That often led to slowdowns, which then led to the rise of shadow IT, and business professionals working around the CIO to get things done faster, Kranc said.
"To survive now, a CIO has to be a lot more business-savvy, and a lot more responsive to the pace of business and the needs of business-facing people who are worrying about digital transformation," Kranc said.
"The job has changed quite a lot."
SEE: Special report: Digital transformation: A CXO's guide (free PDF) (TechRepublic) Most budgets are also now on the business side of the house rather than the technical side, so a CIO looking to fund a project needs a business-side partner, Kranc said.
Here are eight things that every CIO should have on their to-do list as the role continues to evolve, according to Kranc.
1.
Reevaluate your cloud strategy Many companies are change-averse when it comes to moving critical workloads to the cloud; however, it's likely that there are apps running on-prem that would be far less costly to run in the cloud, Kranc said.
Serverless computing is also a game-changer for apps that run occasionally.
Cloud security continues to improve, and "the cost arguments are so overwhelming," Kranc added.
Businesses should avoid becoming overly dependent on a single cloud provider, and embrace hybrid applications, he said.
2.
Invest in updating legacy systems Organizations need to avoid becoming complacent with legacy systems and increasing technical debt, Kranc said.
"When technical debt accumulates, at some point it becomes extremely expensive and near impossible to do the modernization that's needed," he added.
"Don't wait until that update becomes mission-critical."
A hidden cost also arises in regard to employees, as it becomes difficult to find people who are willing to work with outdated technologies, Kranc said.
"You need to plan a course where you'll end up having attractive jobs with attractive technology that engineers want to work in," he added.
SEE: Special report: The art of the hybrid cloud (free PDF) (TechRepublic) 3.
Re-evaluate your analytics strategy Businesses across all industries are using advanced analytics to gain a competitive edge, Kranc said.
"You can't ignore the benefits of analytics and you can't be left behind," he added.
"You've got to start by benchmarking where you are and where you stand relative to the best of your competitors and then figure out what's stopping you from getting at least that same level of insight."
Some of the reasons companies tend to fall behind on analytics are a lack of clean data, siloed data, and lack of data science talent, Kranc said.
Whatever the case, organizations must create a roadmap that gets them closer to being able to gain those insights.
4.
Invest in improving the quality of your data.
The top culprit is typically dirty data, which doesn't create reliable insights, Kranc said.
Organizations must start with a project to cleanse their data, and can seek out tools that automate the process.
"You've got to formulate a roadmap that gets you at least at par with your industry because otherwise you're flying blind and you're not going to be able to keep up," Kranc said.
5.
Plan for growth in your transactional needs CIOs must anticipate future growth, and scale up in advance, Kranc said.
For example, you may have a single server, but as your business grows, that won't be enough over time, he added.
"You need to identify any kind of inflection point that is coming, and create a roadmap to transition to the next right paradigm," Kranc said.
"Anticipate it and prepare a roadmap so that you don't end up with a crisis and something that might turn out the lights."
6.
Plan to support new digital transformation initiatives Despite different definitions of digital transformation, "it's happening," Kranc said.
"Your business side of the house is expecting to make you revenue from these digital transformation apps."
However, CIOs can't just add new digital apps onto existing backend systems, he added.
"You've got to take into account the volume and the response time of these digital apps and you've got to also take into account the ability to support multiple channels," Kranc said.
Determining if you can support API-based interfaces is also key, he added.
"Don't just assume that you're existing infrastructure can support all these new digital transformation initiatives," Kranc said.
"You have to plan ahead so that they don't collapse."
7.
Plan to invest in security Just because your organization has not yet been attacked does not mean it is secure, Kranc said.
"Hackers have business plansthey're well-funded, and there's more of them with more IT than you have on your team probably," Kranc said.
"Don't assume that you have the smarts to trump them all or that there's some single move that makes you secure forever.
It's a never ending cat-and-mouse game."
This means investing is security is critical for CIOs, Kranc added.
8.
Consider GDPR and other data privacy regulations Companies based in the US must still be aware of privacy regulations in areas like the EU with GDPR, and Canada.
CIOs must ensure that systems are built to handle such data privacy requirements to avoid repercussions, Kranc said.
Executive Briefing Newsletter Discover the secrets to IT leadership success with these tips on project management, budgets, and dealing with day-to-day challenges.
Delivered Tuesdays and Thursdays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
Want your business to gain a competitive advantage?
If so, learn what prescriptive analytics isand is not.
How to choose the right data analytics tools: 5 steps Data is one of the most integral business assets for a company, but sometimes it is unclear how to leverage that information.
Here's how.
The future of big data analytics has arrived, and it's called prescriptive analytics.
Gartner defines prescriptive analytics as a form of data analytics that "examines data or content to answer the question 'What should be done?'
or 'What can we do to make _______ happen?'"
In other words, prescriptive analytics uses big data such as historical data and real-time data to not only anticipates what will happen and when but why something will happen and recommends actions to take based on those predictions.
By acting on these insights, businesses could maximize an impending opportunity, optimize a situation, mitigate future risk, and gain a competitive advantage.
SEE: Hiring kit: Data architect (Tech Pro Research) As promising as prescriptive analytics seems, it remains a nascent technology, which can be confusing to deploy and manage.
Before implementing prescriptive analytics in your business, it's important to dispell misconceptions and understand what exactly prescriptive analytics isand what it's not.
5 prescriptive analytics myths 1.
Prescriptive analytics is the same as predictive analytics.
Prescriptive analytics works with advanced data analytics such as descriptive analytics and predictive analytics and builds on it.
For example, descriptive analytics provides insights into the past by answering "what happened."
Predictive analytics takes it a step further by forecasting "what is likely to happen" Whereas, prescriptive analytics prescribes an actual solution, as in "what we should do about it."
2.
Prescriptive analytics is foolproof.
Prescriptive analytics is only as effective as the data it receives.
Many factors can affect data quality.
For example, faulty data, bad assumptions, and poorly built models can all impact the reliability of prescriptive analytics' insights.
3.
Prescriptive analytics is easy.
Despite being faster and more comprehensive than human capabilities, you can't just press a button and instantly retrieve insights.
Prescriptive analytics relies on sophisticated analytics tools, techniques, and technology, like artificial intelligence, machine learning, heuristics, and algorithms to manifest solutions, which makes it challenging to implement and manage.
SEE: Take this survey, and get a free research report 4) Prescriptive analytics has limited use cases.
Many industries including operations, supply chain, sales, marketing, telecom, and finance, and more can benefit from prescriptive analytics.
For example, retailers like Amazon can use prescriptive analytics to improve customer service or recommend purchases.
Healthcare facilities can use prescriptive analytics to improve patient outcomes.
Oil companies can use prescriptive analytics to look for optimal drilling locations.
5.
Prescriptive analytics offers one solution.
Prescriptive analytics works 24 hours a day and continually processes new data as it becomes available to re-predict and re-prescribe solutions.
What do you think?
We want to hear from you Is prescriptive analytics a solution for your company?
How actively is your company using prescriptive analytics?
Are you confident that the data you're using in your prescriptive analytics is reliable?
Take this prescriptive analytics survey from TechRepublic's sister site Tech Pro Research and let us know.
All respondents will have a chance to enter their email at the end of the survey and receive a free copy of the resulting research report, which is normally only available to Tech Pro Research subscribers.
Next Big Thing Newsletter Be in the know about smart cities, AI, Internet of Things, VR, autonomous driving, drones, robotics, and more of the coolest tech innovations.
Delivered Wednesdays and Fridays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
To receive spectrum allocation rights, Japanese mobile network operators are required to cover every prefecture within two years.
LG is focusing on 5G mobility and AI for the future of jobs and transportation LG is working with airlines to offer 5G technology for passengers during flights.
5G mobile network deployment plans in Japan are ramping up, with total investment between network operators reaching 1.6 trillion yen ($14.4 billion) over the next five years, according to Nikkei Asian Review.
Network deployments are expected to begin in 2020, making Japan uncharacteristically late to deploy 5G networks, considering NTT Docomo's involvement in the creation of LTE.
For comparison, KT launched 5G services in South Korea on April 5, and Verizon launched 5G mobile services in parts of Chicago and Minneanpolis on April 3, though CNET's Jessica Dolcourt described the experience as "frustrating."
AT&T claims to have 5G networks operational in 19 cities, though offers no phones that support the network.
(AT&T's "5G E" network is actually 4G LTE Advanced.)
SEE: Special report: How 5G will transform business (free PDF) (TechRepublic) NTT Docomo, the largest network operator in Japan, will invest a minimum of 795 billion yen ($7.16 billion) in 5G over the next five years, followed by 466 billion yen ($4.18 billion) pledged by KDDI.
SoftBankwhich owns Sprintis pledging only 206 billion yen ($1.85 billion), with Rakuten planning 194 billion yen ($1.74 billion) to deploy 5G services.
Rakuten presently operates as a MVNO in Japan, though is planning to activate its own LTE network this October, making the e-commerce giant a full competitor to NTT Docomo, KDDI's au network, and SoftBank Mobile.
Competition from Rakuten, as well as government pressure to lower subscription rates, is likely to drive down prices for mobile services in Japan.
Mobile network operators are required to deploy 5G across all 43 prefectures in Japan within two years, according to Nikkei.
The communications ministry divided the country into 4,500 service blocks, requiring base stations to be placed in at least half within five years.
NTT Docomo and KDDI plan to exceed 90% within that deadline, with SoftBank and Rakuten aiming for 64% and 56%, respectively.
Last December, the government prohibited the purchase of 5G network equipment from Huawei or ZTE using public funds.
Similar bans around the world have shifted Huawei's business, as the company now sells more consumer devices than telecom equipment.
Despite repeated accusations by the US government that Huawei assists the Chinese government in espionage, no evidence of this has been provided.
Huawei's track record for security, however, has taken several blows las month.
An oversight board in the UK indicated that Huawei's products contain "significant" engineering flaws, and a faulty Windows 10 driver on Huawei PCs was found to open systems to "full compromise."
For more, check out TechRepublic's cheat sheet for 5G mobile networks and for 5G smartphones.
Mobile Enterprise Newsletter BYOD, wearables, IoT, mobile security, remote support, and the latest phones, tablets, and apps IT pros need to know about are some of the topics we'll address.
Delivered Tuesdays and Fridays Sign up today Sign up today Also see
SQL injection has been a major security risk since the early days of the internet.
Find out what's at risk, and how cybersecurity pros can defend their organizations.
What is a SQL injection attack?
If your website uses a SQL database you need to be aware of injection attacks, which are simple and incredibly devastating.
Few things terrify IT security professionalsand the organizations they protectas much as data theft.
In a single moment, a company's private data, customer records, employee IDs, and myriad other types of confidential data can be lifted from internal servers.
A moment more, and that data is available for sale to the highest bidder.
One of the most common methods of stealing sensitive data is SQL injection (SQLi), which targets security vulnerabilities in web applications in order to inject a malicious SQL statement into the database that stores the web app's records.
SQL databases store critical information, and despite that fact, many websites remain vulnerable to SQLi attacks, like those that target SQL, which remain the most critical web app security risk.
It's essential that not only IT security professionals, but also the decision makers they protect, understand the risk of this security threat.
SEE: A winning strategy for cybersecurity (ZDNet/TechRepublic special feature) | Download the PDF version (TechRepublic) What are SQL injection attacks?
Structured Query Language, or SQL, is a method of managing relational databases that was first conceived of in the 1970s.
Since then, it has become the standard in database management systems (DBMS) and can be found in countless organizations around the world.
When the rise of internet web applications that connected to SQL databases became commonplace, it took no time at all for SQL injection attacks to become reality.
Since first being discovered in 1998, SQLi has been the bane of almost every organization with a data-driven web app.
SQLi works, at least on the surface, in a very straightforward manner: An attacker submits a malicious SQL statement in a fillable field that exploits a vulnerability in the web app's SQL implementation.
If successful, the malicious SQL statement could dump the entire contents of a database, or select data like customer records, employee ID/password combinations, or anything else the targeted database contains.
SQLi can also give an attacker administrator access to a database, allowing them to delete or modify data.
Depending on the nature of the SQL database, an SQLi attack can even give an attacker access to the operating system of the machine that hosts it, which can allow the attacker to gain access to other network resources.
SEE: All of TechRepublic's cheat sheets and smart person's guides SQL injections typically come in one of three forms: Classic SQLi (aka in-band SQLi), blind SQLi (aka Inference SQLi), and out-of-band (OOB) SQLi (aka DMS-specific SQLi).
Classic SQLi attacks are the most common and simplest form of SQLi.
Classic attacks can occur whenever an SQL database allows users to submit an SQL statement.
They come in two varieties: Error-based SQLi, which involves getting a web app to throw an SQL error that gives the attacker either information about the structure of the database or the particular information they're seeking.
UNION-based attacks, which use the SQL UNION operator to determine specifics of the database's structure in order to extract information.
Blind SQLi attacks can be one of several different types of attacks, like error-based or UNION-based attacks, with the major difference being that the attacker isn't presented with an error message or any other kind of text to indicate the success or failure of their attack.
Blind attacks do, however, cause a web app to behave in different ways, depending on how the database responds to the SQL query.
Attackers can then infer the structure of the database based on how the web app responds, allowing them to build a copy of the database character by character.
Because blind attacks reconstruct a database one character at a time, they are considered incredibly time consuming.
The larger the database, the slower the response, which can make blind attacks impractical in many situations.
Out-of-band SQLi is a much less common approach to attacking an SQL server.
It relies on certain features of an SQL database to be enabled; if those features aren't, the OOB attack won't succeed.
OOB attacks involve submitting a DNS or HTTP query to the SQL server that contains an SQL statement.
If successful, the OOB attack can escalate user privileges, transmit database contents, and generally do the same things other forms of SQLi attacks do.
A fourth type of SQLi attack exists, but it was excluded from the list above because it involves combining SQLi attacks with other cyberattacks.
Called compound SQLi, these attacks involve using SQLi alongside cross-site scripting, denial of service, DNS hijacking, or insufficient authentication attacks.
Pairing SQLi with other methods of attack gives hackers additional ways to avoid detection and circumvent security systems.
The end result of all these different forms of SQLi is the same: The theft of sensitive data that can not only endanger an organization, its employees, and its customers, but also erode trust in that organization's ability to keep confidential data safe.
Additional resources Who is at risk for an SQL injection attack, and what can happen to victims?
Organizational risk for an SQLi attack only requires meeting two simple criteria: Have a website, and having that website interact with an SQL database.
Without proper security in place, and in light of reports that some industries face over 1,000 cyberattacks a day, it's easy to imagine falling victim to an SQLi attack.
While any website relying on an SQL database can be subject to SQLi attacks, data-driven web apps are particularly tempting targets to hackers because of all the information they collect and store.
A data-driven web application is any app that changes its behavior based on the data a user inputs.
Examples of data-driven applications include: Survey apps; report-generating apps; search apps; guest books; workflow applications; apps that generate notifications/reminders; and social media websites.
All of those types of web applicationsand moreare potentially at a higher risk of SQLi attack.
With all of that data potentially up for grabs, it's easy to see what can become of organizations that suffer an SQLi attack.
In particular, effects from successful SQL injection can include: An attacker creating a copy of the entire database (or specific portions); an attacker spoofing login credentials, impersonating a user, or even bypassing authentication entirely; modification of the database (e.g., changing, deleting, or adding records); theft of non-database files located in the DMBS' file system; execution of operating system commands that give an attacker access to other assets on the network that hosts the SQL database; and knocking the target web application/DBMS offline.
Those direct results of a successful SQLi attack are big enough problems on their own, but they aren't the only thing to considerthere's also the long-term fallout.
Sale of confidential data on the dark web, loss of customers, recovery costs, erosion of trustall of those outcomes and more can be the result of a successful SQLi attack.
Additional resources What are examples of successful SQL injection attacks?
SQL injection attacks have been plaguing the internet for over 20 years; in that time, many high-profile attacks and vulnerability discoveries have occurred.
Additional resources How can I prevent an SQL injection attack against my organization?
Make no mistakeSQL injection is incredibly dangerous and surprisingly commonplace.
Fortunately, protecting your website or web app against SQLi isn't difficult to do.
For starters, use an SQLi probing tool like Tyrant-SQL to find any vulnerabilities your site or app may have.
It can be difficult to narrow down what you're at risk for and running an app like Tyrant can make finding weaknesses much easier.
Doing this initial step isn't strictly necessary, but it can give you a better picture of what you're up against.
SEE: How to build a successful career in cybersecurity (free PDF) (TechRepublic) As for protection steps, OWASP's SQLi prevention page has an excellent rundown of how to defend yourself (as well as more details and examples).
Note: These strategies can be used to protect other databases, like XPath and XQuery, as well.
Here's an overview of what OWASP recommends.
1.
Use prepared statements instead of dynamic queries Prepared statements with parameterized queries should be how all database queries are written.
Parameterization means that all SQL code involved in the query has to be defined beforehand, which means the database will be able to distinguish between code and user input.
If an attacker tries to input a malicious SQL statement, the database will treat the statement as data, not code, and the query won't be turned into a malicious one.
2.
Use stored procedures Using stored procedures is similar to using prepared statementsat least from the standpoint that both involve defining valid SQL statements beforehand.
The difference between stored procedures and prepared statements is where the SQL code lives: In the case of prepared statements, SQL code is stored in the web app itself, whereas stored procedures live in the database and are called by the web app.
There are instances where stored procedures can be unsafe, particularly if dynamic SQL generation is used inside stored procedures.
Avoid this if possible; if dynamic SQL generation is necessary, be sure that stored procedures are using input validation or proper escaping to prevent the injection of malicious code.
Stored procedures aren't as foolproof as prepared statements.
Whenever possible, opt for prepared statements over stored procedures.
SEE: Cybersecurity and cyberwar: More must-read coverage (TechRepublic on Flipboard) 3.
Use input validation In cases where some SQL code is a necessary part of user input, it's essential to create a whitelist of valid SQL statements.
Only create a list of the most essential statements to avoid unvalidated statements ending up in a query.
Input validation alone isn't enough to protect an SQL database, but it should be used in all cases as an additional layer of protection.
4.
Escape all user-supplied input Escaping SQL input has the effect of eliminating the threat posed by certain characters in SQL statements.
Depending on the kind of escape function used, SQL input statements will be edited to prepend a "\" or other character in front of certain characters in order to prevent malicious commands from executing correctly.
This is considered a last-ditch method of preventing SQLi attacks.
By itself, escaping isn't reliable and is prone to error, especially if an escape function isn't coded correctly.
Only use escaping if other prevention methods aren't possible.
SEE: Intrusion detection policy (Tech Pro Research) Additional defense methods OWASP also recommends limiting database account privileges, especially for application accounts.
While granting admin access to these accounts can make an application run smoothly, it also opens the door for SQLi by giving users admin access to the database.
In addition, it can be helpful to use different user accounts for different web applications in order to limit what a particular account has access to.
Further, limiting read access to specific fields can prevent a successful SQLi attack from extracting information, leaving an attacker with only a small piece of database contents that render it useless.
Additional resources Cybersecurity Insider Newsletter Strengthen your organization's IT security defenses by keeping abreast of the latest cybersecurity news, solutions, and best practices.
Delivered Tuesdays and Thursdays Sign up today Sign up today
Tesla is making it possible to lease the Model 3 electric sedan for the first time while also making it harder to buy the much-hyped $35,000 base version of the vehicle.
The automaker announced late Thursday that it would begin leasing the Model 3 "for a small down payment and competitive monthly payments."
It's not the same as a standard auto industry lease, which typically gives leasees the option to purchase the vehicle when the lease expires.
"Please note, customers who choose leasing over owning will not have the option to purchase their car at the end of the lease, because with full autonomy coming in the future via an over-the-air software update, we plan to use those vehicles in the Tesla ride-hailing network," Tesla said in a blog post.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk has long teased the possibility of a ride-hailing network of Tesla vehicles, but the company has not announced details.
The Tesla Model 3.
(Photo: Tesla) Tesla Model 3 leases will be available with mileage limits of 10,000, 12,000 or 15,000.
The move could help boost sales of the Model 3 at a time when investors are worried about long-term demand for the car.
Luxury car customers choose leasing over buying more than 50 percent of the time, according to Evercore ISI.
What it's like to own one: Has this Model 3 owner's yearning been fulfilled?
Model Y unveiled: Tesla CEO Elon Musk says electric SUV 'will ride like a sports car' Meanwhile, the company is removing the $35,000 version of the Model 3 from online-only ordering.
The base version became available for sale about six weeks ago after years of anticipation, with Musk billing the vehicle as an affordable electric car for the masses.
The company said customers will need to visit a Tesla store or call Tesla to order the $35,000 model, dubbed Standard, which won't have heated seats, music streaming service and other features.
Customers can pay at any time to upgrade to the next step up, called Standard Plus, and activate those features.
Standard Plus now begins at $39,500, with the company's partially self-driving Autopilot system included, instead of $37,500 plus a $3,000 upgrade for Autopilot.
The company said it's making the moves because "we have made the decision to simplify our production operations to better optimize cost, minimize complexity and streamline operations."
Evercore ISI analyst Arndt Ellinghorst said in a research note that the latest change illustrates Tesla's "unpredictability in pricing/marketing communication."
Follow USA TODAY reporter Nathan Bomey on Twitter @NathanBomey.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/cars/2019/04/12/tesla-model-3-leasing-standard-plus/3445401002/
Hyundai's Digital Key allows drivers to unlock and start their car with a smartphone using near-field communication technology.
It will debut on the 2020 Hyundai Sonata.
(Photo: Hyundai) Self-driving cars are coming someday.
But for now, carmakers and suppliers are focused on technologies that improve vehicle safety, security and convenience.
With the 2019 New York Auto Show set to begin next week with media previews, car companies are looking for ways to stand out from the competition in an era when quality and reliability are similar across brands.
These things that a few years ago were expensive options on luxury cars are now safety features across most line-ups, said Tom Mayor, a consultant at KPMG who advises car companies on their strategies.
Completely driverless cars are more than 10 to 15 years out, he said.
But here are six new technologies you can expect long before you can buy a self-driving car.
1.
More secure ways to start a car Concerns about theft and a desire to offer more convenience have led automakers to pursue new ways to unlock and start vehicles.
Wireless key fobs left in vehicles are making it easier for thieves to steal cars.
Auto theft hit an eight-year high in 2017.
At the New York Auto Show, Hyundai is introducing a "Digital Key" that allows vehicle owners to open and start their cars with their smartphones.
Tax Day: Another tax headache ahead: IRS is changing paycheck withholdings, and it'll be a doozy Store closures: Fred's to close 159 stores and start clearance sales at 360 locations The system can be programmed to work with up to four phones.
It will use near-field communication (NFC) technology to detect whether the approved phone is close to the vehicle's door.
When its placed on a wireless charging pad in the center console, the driver can start and stop the car with a button.
Hyundai is bringing the technology, previously available largely only on luxury brands like Tesla, to mainstream buyers of the redesigned 2020 Sonata, which will be unveiled at the New York.
NEWSLETTERS Get the Managing Your Money newsletter delivered to your inbox We're sorry, but something went wrong A collection of articles to help you manage your finances like a pro.
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-800-872-0001.
Delivery: Fri Invalid email address Thank you!
You're almost signed up for Managing Your Money Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
More newsletters If you are a tech-savvy user, you dont really need to carry the fob, said Manish Mahrotra, director of digital business planning and connected operations for Hyundai.
Your phone will do all the functions that your fob does today.
Hyundai is also developing a fingerprint-scanning system for starting a vehicle, but it has not announced plans to bring that technology to the U.S. Volvo released this image to demonstrate what a vehicle interior with cameras to monitor the driver might look like.
(Photo: Volvo) 2.
In-car monitoring systems Getting distracted behind the wheel?
Had too many drinks and started driving anyway?
Your car might soon be able to stop that risky behavior.
Volvo announced in March that it believes intoxication and distraction should be addressed by installing in-car cameras and other sensors that monitor the driver and allow the car to intervene.
The company is installing in-cabin cameras on all of its vehicles beginning in the early 2020s.
It did not reveal details about where they would be positioned or how many there would be.
But the Chinese-owned Swedish automaker said it wants to start a conversation about whether car makers have the right or maybe even the obligation to install technology in cars that changes driver behavior.
General Motors already has in-car cameras installed in Cadillac cars equipped with an automated highway driving system called Super Cruise.
The cameras monitor the drivers eye movement to ensure they stay awake and keep their eyes on the road.
If the cameras detect anything awry, they alert the driver to pay attention and can even bring the vehicle to a halt if the person doesnt respond.
A head-up display or heads-up display (also known as a HUD) is any transparent display that presents data without requiring users to look away from their usual viewpoints.
(Photo: Hudway Glass) 3.
Augmented reality Automakers are rapidly advancing augmented reality systems to help drivers keep their eyes on the road instead of looking away to get directions, for example.
Some luxury models already have the capability to project the speed limit and other limited information onto a small windshield display for the driver to see.
But engineers are going a step further.
Were continuing to see a lot of focus on technologies that will reduce driver distraction, Mayor said.
Picture a full-windshield heads-up display that can project the turn arrow actually onto the road in front of you or at least give you that perception with augmented reality.
Auto supplier Magna International's Icon Radar technology improves the vehicle's ability to distinguish between objects on the road.
(Photo: Magna International) 4.
Partially self-driving technologies For self-driving cars to become a reality, they must be able to create a continuously updating digital picture of the environment surrounding them.
That requires advanced sensors and radar systems.
Auto supplier Magna International is developing what it calls Icon Radar, which provides military-grade ability to distinguish between individual objects and enables driverless car technology.
The existing radar systems are analog, said Swamy Kotagiri, Magnas chief technology officer.
We looked into the future and said, 'We see a transformation just like ... in the cell phone industry where you went from analog to digital.
Kotagiri described the system as imaging radar.
The company said it would be available beginning in 2019.
Its a quantum jump in resolution, both in vertical and in longitudinal, he said.
It has the capability to distinguish between two different objectives even though theyre very close to each other for example, a pedestrian standing next to a stop sign.
Tesla vehicles have a large infotainment screen instead of physical controls.
(Photo: Tesla) 5.
Bigger, more advanced touchscreens Teslas introduction of a large touchscreen as a replacement for most physical controls in the vehicle has influenced competitors to move in a similar direction.
Infotainment screens are bulking up.
Some customers and safety watchdogs have complained that these screens are a safety risk because they lack the tactile feel of physical controls.
But the recent arrival of more reliable voice-assistant technologies in the vehicle, such as Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant and Apple Siri, will help alleviate some of the safety issues.
Bigger infotainment screens are where the market is going, Mayor said.
It makes for easy over-the-air upgrades, (and) it lets consumers use their favorite apps in the vehicle.
Bosch engineers test a system designed to help detect pedestrians and trigger automatic emergency braking.
The system is available in Europe, but U.S. automakers have been slow to adopt the technology.
(Photo: Ralf Groemminger) 6.
More driver assistance systems Completely driverless cars that dont need a safety driver and can operate in any environment are still a long way off.
Perhaps decades, as Mayor suggested.
But safety systems that assist the driver are becoming more common in mainstream models.
Previously available largely on luxury cars, systems like lane-keeping assistance and automatic emergency braking are making their way into everyday models.
In fact, automakers have pledged to make automatic emergency braking standard on all vehicles by September 2022.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/cars/2019/04/12/new-york-auto-show-2019-6-new-technologies/3423788002/
The Avengers (Photo: Courtesy of Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures) BURBANK, Calif. New series featuring Marvel's Loki and a Falcon-Winter Soldier pairing; two more with characters dwelling in the "Star Wars" universe; and another based on the "High School Musical" films are among the highlights of Disney's upcoming streaming service, Disney+.
The much-anticipated, ad-free service launches Nov. 12, and will cost subscribers $6.99 per month, with an annual option available for $69.99.
(Netflix's most popular plan is $12.99 a month.)
Some new series and films will be available at launch, with others scheduled for later premieres.
The giant entertainment company flexed its programming muscle in unveiling plans for Disney+ Thursday at an investor presentation on its studio lot.
Highlights include "Loki," an eight-episode series starring Tom Hiddleston that premieres in the second year of the service, and "The Falcon and The Winter Soldier" (Year 1 of Disney+), with Anthony Mackie and Sebastian Stan playing their characters from the Marvel films.
The "Star Wars" series are "The Mandalorian," which follows a bounty hunter (Pedro Pascal) and will be available at launch, and an untitled spy series featuring Cassian Andor (Diego Luna) of "Rogue One: A Star Wars Story."
It arrives in the second year.
Original films that will premiere exclusively on the service in its first year include: Lady & the Tramp, featuring the voices Tessa Thompson and Justin Theroux; Noelle, a Christmas-themed film starring Anna Kendrick and Bill Hader; a Phineas and Ferb film; and Stargirl, a high school story that features Americas Got Talent winner Grace VanderWaal.
Here's the Disney+ streaming service as it will appear on a Smart TV.
(Photo: Disney) In addition to Pixar's animation library, Disney+ will launch two projects tied to Pixars's "Toy Story," whose fourth film premieres in theaters this summer: "Forky Asks a Question," a series of animated short stories featuring a new "Toy Story 4" character, and "Lamp Life," a short film in which Bo Peep, who wasn't in "Toy Story 3," explains what she was doing at that time.
The service launches with eight "Star Wars" theatrical films, with three more arriving during the first year, and will be the exclusive subscription video-on-demand home of all 30 seasons of "The Simpsons," a crown jewel of the 20th Century Fox studio, which Disney acquired last month.
Cassian Andor (Diego Luna), right, seen here with Jyn Erso (Felicity Jones) in 'Rogue One: A Star Wars Story,' will be the main character in a new series on Disney+, Disney's upcoming streaming service.
(Photo: Jonathan Olley, Lucasfilm) "Captain Marvel," the Brie Larson Marvel superhero film that premiered in theaters in March, will be available to subscribers on launch day.
Other 2019 films coming to the streaming service include "Avengers: Endgame," "Aladdin," "Toy Story 4," "The Lion King" and "Frozen 2."
Disney said the service will offer more than 7,500 episodes of television and 500 film titles by the end of the first year.
Available films range from classics, such as "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs," and "Mary Poppins," to more recent favorites "Iron Man" and "Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl."
The service also pulls from the Fox library, with such titles as "The Sound of Music" and "The Princess Bride."
All 30 seasons of "The Simpsons" will be available on Disney's new streaming service, Disney+.
(Photo: CR: FOX) By Year 5, Disney hopes to offer more than 50 episodic series and 10 new movies and specials per year.
The company expects 60 to 90 million subscribers by fiscal year 2024, with one-third of subscribers coming from the U.S. After a clip featuring mountains of movie and TV clips opened the presentation, Disney CEO Robert Iger told analysts and reporters that "the video you just watched told a powerful tale about where we've been and what we've accomplished.
It should also give you a strong sense of what we can do and what we're building from," he said.
"For decades, these companies have been entertaining the world at the highest levels, creating an indelible connection with billions of people and a treasure trove of long-lasting content" that "no other content or technology company can rival."
The new service will feature new and existing programming from Disney's film and animation studios, "Star Wars," Marvel, Pixar and National Geographic, which it acquired along with the FX network as part of the Fox deal.
Here's a rundown of other new and existing programming: Marvel Besides "Loki" and "The Falcon and The Winter Soldier," Disney+ announced another series based on Marvel Cinematic Universe characters, "WandaVision" (Year 2), which brings together Wanda Maximoff (Elizabeth Olsen) and Vision (Paul Bettany).
'Star Wars' Twelve new episodes of "Star Wars: The Clone Wars" will premiere exclusively on Disney+.
Pixar Building off the "Monsters, Inc." films, Pixar is making a new series, "Monsters at Work," set to premiere in the first year of the new service and feature the voices of returning stars Billy Crystal and John Goodman.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/life/tv/2019/04/11/disney-streaming-service-launches-november-star-wars-marvel/3438224002/
The 17 best Amazon deals you can get right now Upgrade your home with today's deals.
(Photo: Reviewed) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA Todays newsroom and any business incentives.
Happy Friday!
Nothing gets me more excited for the weekend than finding a good deal on Amazon.
Not only am I saving money, but with Prime shipping, I can have it on my doorstep on Saturday or Sundaywhich is even more reason to celebrate.
More: The best KitchenAid Stand Mixer is on sale for an amazing price right now There are hundreds of deals to choose from, which makes it a little more tricky to decide if things are actually a good deal and not just a bad product at a good price or a good product at a not-so-great price.
That's where we come in.
Here are Reviewed, not only do we test products, but we use price tracking tools to find them at their best possible price.
So you can shop with confidence knowing that the robot vacuum, trash can, and Dutch oven you're buying are actually worth your money.
Under $15 A low price to save your memories.
(Photo: SanDisk) 1.
Our favorite deal: SanDisk 32GB Ultra Class 10 SD Memory Card Whether you're a videographer or just prefer using a point-and-shoot camera instead of your phone, you need to have memory cards stocked upand now is the perfect time to do so.
Right now, you can get a SanDisk 32GB Ultra SD card for less than $10 and one of the lowest prices we've ever seen.
SanDisk makes the best SD cards we've ever tested and the Ultra is perfect for compact-to-midrange point-and-shoot digital cameras.
Get the SanDisk 32GB Ultra Class 10 SD Memory Card for $6.85 (Save $2.24) More deals under $15 2.
Anker Roav SmartCharge Halo$13.99 (Save $6) with code "ROAVF3WA": This smart car charger has three USB ports, offers fast charging, and can locate your car.
3.
LilyAna Naturals Retinol Cream Moisturizer$14.99 on Amazon (Save $5): Use the on-page coupon to save on this cult-favorite moisturizer.
4.
Anker 6-foot USB-C Charging Cable 2-Pack$9.99 (Save $3): This two pack of cables is a must for any devices that charge via USB-C.
Under $35 An affordable extension cord for all your spring projects.
(Photo: Reviewed / Jessa Rose Photography) 5.
Our favorite deal: U.S. Wire & Cable Outdoor Lighted Extension Cord When you need to run the leaf blower, weed whacker, or power tools come spring time, you're going to want a solid extension cord so you can actually use these things away from the outlet.
After testing several outdoor extension cords, we found that this one from U.S. Wire & Cable was our favorite affordable one.
We liked that it offered happy medium of length and power and is well-constructedall at a great value.
Right now, it's even more affordable and is at the lowest price we've ever seen.
Get the U.S. Wire & Cable Outdoor Lighted Extension Cord for $32.95 (Save $2.04) More deals under $35 6.
VTech DM221 Audio Baby Monitor$25 (Save $11.13): This audio-only baby monitor is the best audio baby monitor we've ever tested, and you can get it now at its lowest price.
7.
Anker PowerCore 15000 Redux 15000mAh 2-Port Ultra-Portable Charger$33.99 (Save $7): This portable power bank offers high-speed charging and is compatible with most Apple and Samsung devices.
Under $60 Le Creuset who?
(Photo: Lodge) 8.
Our favorite deal: Lodge 4.6-Quart Round Dutch Oven Everyone puts a Dutch oven on their wedding registry, since well-known brands like Le Creuset (*cough, cough*) cost a hefty penny.
If you don't want to get married right now, but still want one of these incredible cooking devices, you can still get a Dutch oven without blowing your savings.
Lodge makes our favorite affordable Dutch oven that will bake bread, saut vegetables, and cook brisket just as well for a fraction of the price.
Right now, it's back down to its lowest price on Amazon.
More deals under $60 9.
Honeywell Lyric Smart Water Leak Detector$49.99 (Save $10): This is the best smart water leak detector we've ever tested back down to the lowest price we've ever seen.
Under $150 The sleekest trash can you will ever own.
(Photo: simplehuman) 10.
Our favorite deal: Simplehuman 45L Rectangular Step Can Now, I'm not saying you need a trash can that costs more than $100, but I think you'll probably want this one.
The Simplehuman Step Can is the best kitchen trash can we've ever tested and with good reason.
Not only is it an incredible good looking garbage holder, but it has custom-fit liners that dispense from inside the can, a smooth foot pedal, and clean dimensions to be tucked into corners or along a wall.
Plus, it harnesses UV rays in order to prevent fingerprints, inhibit germs and microbes, and eliminate odors.
It's quite the glamorous waste holder and right now it's down to its lowest price.
Get the Simplehuman 45L Rectangular Step Can for $122.92 (Save $7.07) More deals under $150 11.
Audio-Technica ATH-M50x Headphones$129 (Save $20): These are one of the best headphones we've ever tested and they're down to their lowest price.
12.
Fire 7 Kids Edition Tablet$69.99 (Save $30): The best tablet for kids we've ever tested is back down to its lowest price and is perfect for long road trips.
13.
Instant Pot DUO Plus 9-in-1 Pressure Cooker$99.99 (Save $30): This model offers even more functionality than the Duo, and works as a pressure cooker, slow cooker, cake maker, maker, egg cooker, and more.
Over $150 Clean smarter at an affordable price.
(Photo: Ecovacs) 14.
Our favorite deal: Ecovacs Deebot 901 With spring cleaning on your mind, you may be itching to vacuum your home every single day.
But that's tedious and time-consumingwhich is where a robot vacuum comes in.
These bad boys keep your home nice and tidy in between deep cleanings, and right now one of our favorites is on sale for today only.
When we tested the Ecovacs Deebot 901, we found that it had incredible smart features like Alexa compatibility and virtual mapping of your home, so you can choose what areas you want it to clean from an app.
Pretty neat, huh?
Although we've found other robot vacuums to have better cleaning power, this one still works well enough to keep things pretty tidy.
Get the Ecovacs Deebot 901 for $264.99 (Save $160.01) More deals over $150 15.
Cuisinart DFP-14BCNY 14-Cup Food Processor$150.34 (Save $18.65): Our favorite food processor is down to one of its lowest prices.
16.
Tuft & Needle Mattress in a Box$280-$600 (Save $70-$150): Our favorite mattress in a box has been on sale for a while now, but this is the last day you can access this deal.
17.
Tuft & Needle Nod Mattress$236-$396 (Save $59-$99): This innovative foam mattress comes with a 100-night trial and a great blend of softness and support.
Other great deals you can get online right now The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest deals, reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/04/12/best-amazon-deals-you-can-get-friday/3445324002/
Does iTunes have a future next to standalone Music, Podcasts and TV apps on the Mac?
Are iTunes' days numbered?
A report from the website 9to5Mac claims Apple is developing standalone Music and Podcasts apps for the next version of the Mac operating system and redesigning the existing Macs Books app.
Such media apps would join the not-yet-launched version of the TV app that Apple announced last month and said would be coming to the Mac in the fall.
And, if all of this comes to pass, it raises questions about the long-term future of iTunes, though 9to5Mac suggests the software wont go away right away, likely because it is still the method by which some manually sync iPhones, iPads or even relatively ancient iPods to the computer.
Find $100 phones: $1,000 for a smartphone?
How about $100?
Disney may help you find romance: Single and love Disney?
Plenty of Fish says odds are in your favor for finding romance 9to5Macs report was pinned on unnamed sources said to be familiar with the next version of macOS that Apple will almost certainly showcase during its Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) in June.
The report followed a recent tweet from a developer Steve Troughton-Smith, who said he was fairly confident Apple would create such separate new macOS apps, based on evidence I don't wish to make public at this point.
I am now fairly confident based on evidence I don't wish to make public at this point that Apple is planning new (likely UIKit) Music, Podcasts, perhaps even Books, apps for macOS, to join the new TV app.
I expect the four to be the next wave of Marzipan apps.
Grain of salt, etc Steve Troughton-Smith (@stroughtonsmith) April 5, 2019 The apps, he added, would likely represent the next wave of so-called Marzipan apps that are based on code and tools developers can use to more easily port apps that run on iPhones and iPads to the Mac, effectively narrowing the gap between iOS and macOS.
Apple isnt saying one way or the other the company declined a USA TODAY request for comment but there certainly seems to be a lot of truth here and the result could be a win for consumers and for Apple, especially with the company poised to launch Apple TV+ service in the fall.
Pricing for that service has not yet been announced.
Apple has certainly been busy on the services front having just launched the $9.99 a month Apple News+ service for readers of newspapers and magazines and readying the Apple Arcade gaming service, which like TV+ is expected to have a fall release.
Will you miss iTunes?
Unless youre set in your ways, you may not miss iTunes all that much.
Oh sure, many of us have used iTunes since its launch as jukebox software early this century, so it's certainly familiar.
It is also, frankly, showing its age.
Apple has attempted to simplify its design and improve navigation through the years, but, at best, you can probably say that most of the changes in iTunes have garnered mixed reviews.
Meanwhile, if you use an iPhone, youre already accustomed to separate TV, Podcasts, Books, and, of course, Music apps.
Of course, there's still a dedicated iTunes Store app where you go to buy or rent movies and TV shows or buy music and ringtones.
And you still may find yourself jumping around.
You access the subscription-based Apple Music service in iOS under the Music app, which makes sense, but again you'd have to visit iTunes to purchase individual tracks or albums.
If you want to buy eBooks or audiobooks through Apple on an iPhone, you'll find stores to make those purchases inside the separate Books app.
Currently, you can get to the bookstore in the Books app on the Mac as well, though iTunes is the place to start to find audiobooks.
The hope and expectations here are that whatever Apple cooks up for the Mac with standalone apps, they'll not only bring a fresh look and feel to the computer but that it will be clear where you'll go to purchase and consumer content.
Of course, we'll all be watching to see if there are any changes of consequence inside iTunes itself assuming it is sticking around.
What changes do you want to see come to iTunes or would you rather just see it go?
And are you all in on standalone apps?
Email: ebaig@usatoday.com; Follow @edbaig on Twitter Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2019/04/11/splitting-tunes-into-separate-apps-mac-promises-consumer-win/3435884002/
Ride-hailing giant Uber is set to go public, as it seeks to raise $1 billion.
The company brought in $11.3 billion in 2018 revenue, a 42% increase from $7.9 billion in 2017, but had an operating loss of just under $1 million.
Rival Lyft went public in early April but hasn't found great success on Wall Street so far.
Shares closed Thursday at $61.01, which is down over 15% from its IPO price.
(Photo: Uber) The company said in its filing that it makes 14 million trips daily, 10 billion trips in total, and has paid out $78 billion total to drivers since first launching in 2009.
The unveiling comes four months after Uber took its first step toward its initial public offering with a confidential filing.
The breakdown shows Uber has been generating the robust revenue growth that entices investors but also racked up nearly $8 billion in losses since its inception.
In announcing the IPO, CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said the firm is just getting started.
"Uber accounts for less than 1% of all miles driven globally," he wrote, in a letter to investors.
"We are still barely scratching the surface when it comes to huge industries like food and logistics and how the future of urban mobility will reshape cities for the better."
Ride-sharing looks to be a big growth area.
Uber said it generated $9.2 billion worth of rides from people sharing the back seat, up from $3.5 billion in 2016.
In the filing, Uber defended paying drivers as contractors for its business model, saying the company "would be adversely affected if drivers were classified as employees."
In a bone to drivers, who have loudly complained of low pay, Uber said it would pay them a one-time "appreciation reward" from a pool of $300 million to over 1.1 million qualifying drivers.
The driver will get bonuses of $100, $500, $1,000 or $10,000 based on the number of trips they had generated.
NEWSLETTERS Get the Managing Your Money newsletter delivered to your inbox We're sorry, but something went wrong A collection of articles to help you manage your finances like a pro.
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-800-872-0001.
Delivery: Fri Invalid email address Thank you!
You're almost signed up for Managing Your Money Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
More newsletters "We expect to pay the Driver appreciation reward to qualifying Drivers on or around April 27, 2019."
A statement you probably wouldn't see in other IPO brochures: "Platform users may engage in, or be subject to, criminal, violent, inappropriate, or dangerous activity that results in major safety incidents, which may harm our ability to attract and retain Drivers, consumers, restaurants, shippers, and carriers."
Associated Press contributed to this story.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2019/04/11/uber-looks-join-lyft-ipo-and-wants-raise-1-billion/3439696002/
Samsung's nearly $2,000 Galaxy Fold reservations start this Friday, S10 5G arrives in May CLOSE Samsung has unveiled a highly anticipated smartphone with a foldable screen that breaks new ground in a market that has been stuck in an innovative funk.
The new phone has a 4.6 inch screen that morphs into a 7.3 inch screen mini-tablet.
(Feb. 20) AP Ready to drop nearly $2,000 for Samsung's first foldable?
It's almost time to grab your wallet.
Starting Friday, Samsung will be sending out invitations to those who have signed up on its website expressing interest in the Fold.
After receiving the invitations, those interested in purchasing one of the foldable phones will be able to reserve their place in a virtual line, granting them the ability to be one of the first to buy the phone/tablet hybrid.
Samsung will not be making the phone available for preorder Friday, that will be on April 15.
Those who do want to preorder will need to sign up in advance for one of these invitations, however, as the supply of the phones will be limited.
The Galaxy Fold, which will be available for $1,980 for a 4G LTE version with 512GB of storage, will be available on April 26.
AT&T and T-Mobile will both carry the 4G LTE model and those are the only two options available for preorder.
There is no unlocked option that would work on Verizon and Sprint.
Samsung will also have a 5G version of the Fold, though its exact pricing and release are also currently unknown.
Forget a $2,000 phone: $1,000 for a smartphone?
How about $100?
More Galaxy Fold: As Galaxy S turns 10, Samsung looks to future with first foldable phone Galaxy S10+ review: Samsung shows it knows how to build a great phone Samsung Galaxy Fold (Photo: Samsung) Speaking of 5G, in addition to announcing the update on the Fold's availability, Samsung additionally confirmed that the 5G version of the Galaxy S10 will be available in May.
The previously announced larger version of the Galaxy S10+ features a 6.7-inch display, four rear cameras and two front cameras as well as the latest Galaxy S10 features including a fingerprint sensor underneath its display and Wireless PowerShare for wirelessly charging other devices from the phone.
All four major carriers have announced they will carry the S10 5G, though Verizon will be the first to get the device.
It is currently not known how much the phone will cost or when exactly it will be released.
Noted leaker Evan Blass, however, recently tweeted that Verizon will sell the phone on May 16.
Follow Eli Blumenthal on Twitter @eliblumenthal Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2019/04/11/samsung-galaxy-fold-pre-sale-starts-tomorrow-s-10-5-g-arrives-may/3434819002/
$1,000 for a smartphone?
How about $100?
CLOSE If you want to avoid paying thousands of dollars for a new phone, USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham breaks down a list of quality phones for under $100.
USA TODAY LOS ANGELES The Samsung Galaxy J phone won't win any critics awards.
It has a smaller 5-inch LCD screen to the brighter 6.4-inch AMOLED display of the top of the line S10+, a weaker battery and processor and less storage, 16 GB vs. 128 GB.
But the S10+ starts at $899, and if you've got the cash for it, great.
You could also pick up the J at B&H Photo for $99 and get yourself a working smartphone that will let you do everything you probably want to do, like make and receive calls, text, use apps, take photos and the like.
You don't have to spend $1,000 for a smartphone, despite what Apple and Samsung continue to tell you, in trying to entice you into buying the latest iPhone or premium Galaxy phone.
We found many, many choices in the $100 range, either low-price phones aimed at developing countries, like the J, Chinese brands that specialize in low-price phones, older models, like the J, that have since been upgraded and plenty of refurbished recent models from 2016 and 2017.
These phones all sell for under $100, the Alcatel Dawn, Nokia 2 and Samsung Galaxy J.
(Photo: Jefferson Graham) We tried out the J, as well as other under $100 phones, the Nokia 2 and Alcatel Dawn, using service from Mint Mobile and Unreal Mobile.
What worked Everything.
We made calls, answered them, texted, surfed the Web, took and shared photos, downloaded and uses apps.
The fine print On the downside, these cheap phones are slower than what you may be used to with premium phones, the screens aren't as pretty to look at, and your pictures will be lower resolution than on top-of-the-line iPhones and Galaxy units.
You won't be able to shoot video in 4K resolution you won't even get to 1080p high definition but instead 720p.
Shooting panoramas, time-lapse videos and in slow motion are features you won't get.
But if you're, say, a parent with four kids looking to get a cheap phone for each of them, there's no reason to spend bundles of cash on the expensive models.
Or, if you don't make enough money to warrant dropping $1,000 or more on the latest iPhone (the top of the line XS Max actually starts at $1,099), you have a good alternative.
"You have 95% of the marketing for phones directed to the top end phones," says Stephen Stokels, CEO of Unreal Mobile, which markets low-priced wireless service.
"The reality is, you have a lot of good phones available for under $100, and the tech differences between $100 and $1,000 is just not that significant."
So gross: Your smartphone is probably dirtier than your toilet Fake phones: 2 college students are accused of cheating Apple out of $900,000 using fake iPhones Going slow Of the three we tried, the Dawn was the slowest, with Nokia in the middle and the Galaxy J performing the best of all.
And by slow, we mean opening an app or website and waiting for it load.
And slow is a relative term.
On the S10+, waiting for Google Maps to load took two seconds, versus four seconds on the J, five seconds for the Nokia and six for the Dawn.
You can see the differences by examining the specs: The Dawn has a 1.1 GHz processor, to 1.3 GHz for the Nokia and 1.4 GHz for the J.
The faster the processor, the faster the response.
That's why the J opened Maps faster than the others.
What to look for So in looking for your cheap phones, identify a price you're willing to work with, and take a good, hard look at the specs.
Get the fastest processor, most storage and strongest battery you can find for your budget.
On the MintMobile website, for instance, the Motorola E4 ($159) touts a 1.4 GHz processor, to 1.1 GHz for the $89 Alcatel Tetra.
So clearly the E4 has more power.
What about refurb?
Stokols recommends opting for a refurbished phone versus a used model, as they get cleaned and parts replaced, and they usually come with warranties.
"They are like new," he says.
But I need an iPhone!
The best deals for cheap phones are for Android models.
What about an iPhone?
Unreal sells a refurbished iPhone 5 for $99, but you might want to spend a little more if you need to have an Apple phone.
The current iOS software, which Apple updates yearly, doesn't work with the 5, though it does work with the 5S.
Prospective buyers should opt for the 6 or 6S series instead.
Older 6 and 6S models are available online, usually as refurbs or used, as the most current model Apple sells is the 7, which was initially released in 2016.
It sells for $449.
But the deal on an iPhone, if you're willing to live with a smaller 4-inch screen, is the SE.
This phone has been discontinued by Apple, but the company continues to sell new models for $250, with a full 1-year warranty.
The starter phone has 32 GB of storage.
An even better deal is getting the model with 128 GB of storage for $299.
And if the SE doesn't do it for you, consider a refurbed, but more recent iPhone, says Aron North, senior vice-president of Mint Mobile.
You can get a top of the line iPhone "at several hundreds of dollars of the original price," he says.
"With only incremental changes over the last couple years the customer gets an amazing experience at a fraction of the price."
And what about cheap service?
MintMobile, which you may remember from its Super Bowl ads, has a monthly $15 offering, with unlimited calls and texting, and 3 gigabytes of data.
(You'll need to commit to a full year after the three month trial to lock down the rate.)
Unreal Mobile offers calls and 1 GB of data for $10 monthly, or $20 monthly with 3 GB.
This compares to $50 a month, for instance, with 3 GB of data, from AT&T.
Happy shopping!
Follow USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham (@jeffersongraham) on Twitter, Instagram and YouTube.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2019/04/11/you-dont-have-drop-1-k-smartphone-try-100-bucks-instead/3406262002/
CLOSE Its called Stadia.
Time, Time Go ahead name some big companies offering cellular service.
AT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile and Sprint probably came to mind.
Now you can add Google to that list.
Google recently announced that Fi SIM cards would be available for purchase in more than 500 Best Buy stores across the country.
It appears that Google Fi is finally ready for mainstream use, and nearly anyone can jump on board.
From the get-go, Fi is a compelling service that focuses on price.
So what is Fi?
How does it work, and how is it different from any traditional phone service?
Before you try this dark-horse carrier, heres a brief rundown of its benefits and drawbacks.
Some phones, including Googles Pixel, are specifically designed to work with Google Fi.
(Photo: Robert Hanashiro, USAT) What you need to know about Google Fi Some phones are specifically designed to work with Google Fi, such as Googles Pixel.
Other phones are compatible with Google Fi, although most arent.
You'll get more features with Fi phones, including what Google calls "intelligent" switching between three LTE networks and Wi-Fi hotspots.
You can check to see if Fi services your neighborhood.
You just type in your address on the Fi site fi.google.com and it'll show you if you're covered and if you're using a Fi phone or a compatible model.
The Fi site maintains a directory of compatible phones, including Pixel and models by other manufacturers.
You'll notice that some phones are still in the beta stage, notably iPhones.
You might save money with Google Fi Fi's mission is simple.
You can order a SIM card on the Fi site free or buy one for $10 at Best Buy.
Then you choose your plan: It's $20 a month for unlimited phone calls and texts and $15 for each additional phone line.
For every GB of data you use, you spend $10 a month.
Google will not charge you if you go over 6 GB a month, but it will slow down your data when you go over 15 GB.
The idea is to prevent you from spending more than your budget.
If you travel overseas, youll love Fi.
You pay the same price for data if you're connecting in more than 200 countries.
You also have free, unlimited texting.
Phone calls in other countries are served by Fi at 20 cents a minute when you're not connected to Wi-Fi.
Happy birthday, Gmail: Google adds email scheduling and "smarter" features Download these: 14 Android and iPhone apps you'll use again and again How to switch to Fi Converting to Fi can be handled almost entirely on its website.
Once you visit the site, youll find the "Join" button.
You'll be prompted to choose your phone, whether youre using your current phone or buying a new model specifically designed for Fi.
To ensure that your phone is compatible, youll be prompted to type in your phones brand, model and service provider.
Or you can select the Fi phone you'd like to buy.
After you've picked your phone, you'll have to select a plan.
It's $20 for calls and texts, and then you choose your data plan.
You'll need to contact your current carrier to disconnect your service once the switch to Google Fi has been confirmed.
Should you switch to Fi?
To Fi or not to Fi?
If your phone is compatible with Google Fi's network and the plans look like a deal, and youre the type who likes to be an early adopter, then the switch makes sense.
If youre like me and youd prefer to wait and see how it wholesale performs, Im staying where I am for now.
Fi does require you to jump through some hoops.
You'll have to switch your own SIM card, and you may have to untangle yourself from your current carrier and unlock your "big-four" phone.
If you don't use a lot of cellular data and are willing to experiment with new technology, Fi may be a prudent choice.
One final thought: Most of us turn to Google for email, entertainment and virtual workflow.
Entire corporations have handed Google troves of personal data and document storage.
Many of us will think twice about using Google as our cell carrier as well.
What digital lifestyle questions do you have?
Call Kims national radio show and tap or click here to find it on your local radio station.
You can listen to or watch the Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet, television or computer.
Or tap or click here for Kim's free podcasts.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/columnist/2019/04/11/google-fi-cellular-service-pros-and-cons/3415577002/
Single and love Disney?
Plenty of Fish says odds are in your favor for finding romance CLOSE Walt Disney World recently showed the Associated Press what it takes to put their shows together.
Its a shift for a resort that hasnt allowed many peeks behind the curtains of the fantasy it creates.
(Jan. 17) AP Maybe romantic Disney fairy tales come true after all.
Data from the popular global online dating site Plenty of Fish reveals that singles who have expressed an interest in Disney are 3.6 times more likely to leave the app in a relationship compared to singles who more generally list interests in music and movies.
That was certainly true for Disney fan Abby Schiller.
After listing Disney as a hobby in her POF user profile in 2016, she met her eventual Prince Charming Miguel Morrobel, who contacted her because of their mutual love of Mickey and Co.
The couple had their first date at Walt Disney World, and two years later he proposed to Abby in front of Cinderellas castle.
Now married, they live in Winter Haven, Fla. Miguel Morrobel proposed to wife Abby at in front of Cinderella's castle.
(Photo: Abby Morrobel) Debit cards for kids: Can prepaid debit cards for kids make them smarter about money?
Best camera phone shootout: Nope, the iPhone doesn't have the best camera Im definitely not shy, but I was a busy, single mom, so bar hopping and lots of nights out wasnt an option nor was it wanted, Abby explained.
I couldnt have picked someone Im more compatible with though.
POF uncovered the Disney love connection after analyzing more than 7 million user profiles.
Part of the Match Group, POF has 150 million registered users worldwide and claims 2.5 million conversations daily, which the company says are more than any other dating app.
Data shows that women interested in Disney are 25% more likely to receive messages on POF compared to females who list more common interests.
Eleven percent of men who are into Disney saw a similar result.
Keep in mind while theres got to be someone out there totally waiting for the one they love to find them, theres no guarantee that POFs pixie dust will spark romance in your life.
After all, Disney has its share of villains, too.
Got a Disney happily ever after?
Share it with Ed Baig via email at ebaig@usatoday.com or @edbaig on Twitter.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2019/04/11/single-disney-fans-luckier-finding-love-at-this-online-dating-site/3426954002/
BY JEFFERSON GRAHAM Friday, April 12 In the internet age, it pays to be skeptical An attempted hack, a USB drive infested with malware and a fake Uber drive show why internet users need to verify every move before going forward.
In these digital times, it comes down to this: Trust no one.
.
And verify everything.
Consider: A woman strolls onto President Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort, with four cellphones and a thumb drive authorities say was full of malware.
Who knows just how extreme the malware was.
But let's face it, it wasn't good.
After she got past Secret Service checkpoints, she was stopped by the hotel's reception staff before it was too late.
Jeff Bezos, often characterized as the world's richest person thanks to the billions earned from his Amazon.com, also had people, but his phone, they allege, got hacked by the Saudis.
Security experts we spoke to think it was either a phishing link that got clicked and enabled malware or malicious code put on a website he visited.
Bezos says personal information was stolen from his phone.
A University of South Carolina student ordered an Uber over the weekend and stepped into a car she assumed was the driver.
It wasn't.
She was killed later that night, police announced Monday.
For the millions of us who use ride-hailing apps like Uber and Lyft, remember this: The name of the driver and the license plate for the car are labeled in the app.
Double check it before you get into any car and have the driver announce his or her name.
Adam Levin, the author of Swiped: How to Protect Yourself in a World Full of Scammers, Phishers and Identity Thieves, says people who haven't taken security seriously need to stop and do a rethink.
Internet woes are "not something we can prevent," he says.
"But we can be more careful."
What to do in the internet age?
Begin by assuming the worst.
When the phones rings, is it really a friend calling to speak to you or is it a hacker?
Levin tells a story about the rogue asking if it's you when you answer the call, you say "Yes," and, if recorded, that word then gives him the license to bill you for things you never ordered because they have you on tape saying "Yes."
His solution: Answer the phone only when you can prove, through Caller ID, that it is one of your contacts.
In the case of the malware-infested thumb drive that made it onto Trump's resort property, Levin says that had it been inserted into a networked computer, it could have picked up passwords, e-mail accounts and other privileged information.
"Once malware is into a system, it's like a disease and virus," he says.
"It just gets in and spreads."
With a phone belonging to Bezos or you and me, "no phone is impregnable," he says.
"People have to understand this.
The phone you use could be a weapon of mass destruction.
People look at cellphone as communication tool, it's really a mini data storage device."
Once again, class, remember: Don't put important personal information on your phone, unless you wish it to be in others' hands.
Have different passwords for every website you go to, and use two-factor authentication, using a code as a secondary method of logging in, to beef up your credentials.
If you get hacked, change all your passwords.
When using public Wi-fi, assume that everything you're typing can be read by others.
If you don't want it reprinted, don't type it.
Better yet, subscribe to a virtual private network app to use while in public wifi, like NordVPN or or SaferVPN, which will help secure your signal.
"No one is too unimportant, too small, too irrelevant to be of interest to a hacker," says Levin.
"Assume we're all as hot as Kim Kardashian.
We all have information they'd like to have."
In other tech news this week Speaking of hacking, the UpGuard cybersecurity firm said that it uncovered two cases in which massive buckets of third-party Facebook app data were left exposed on the public internet.
In one such case, a Mexico-based media company named Cultura Colectiva amassed 146 gigabytes of data with more than 540 million records.
The records are said to include user comments, likes, reactions, account names, Facebook IDs and more.
Facebook said it took down the database after it was alerted to the issue.
Verizon turned on its 5G network in Chicago and Minneapolis.
The new 5G network is the first to work with a mobile phone, last year's Motorola's Moto Z3, assuming you have the required accessory that attaches to the back of the phone and has the required chips to connect to 5G.
The phone currently retails for $480 on Verizon's website.
The 5G accessory is sold separately for $199.99, a discount from what Verizon says is a retail price of $349.99.
Snapchat hopes games will keep its young user base more involved with the service and help it grow.
At a splashy event in Hollywood on Thursday, Snap Games was introduced.
Users locate other players and the game during chat sessions.
The first game introduced, Bitmoji Party, launched Thursday, and like the other games that will roll out shortly, they're all free and ad-supported.
The back and forth between YouTube's PewDiePie and India's T-Series record label has resulted in a victor: PewDiePie is once again the most subscribed to channel on YouTube.
PewDiePie also known as Felix Kjellberg had initially conceded defeat to T-Series, but he then saw a surge in subscribers.
Both are hovering just under 100 million subscribers.
This week's Talking Tech podcasts Watch an ad on app, get free movie ticket: MoviePass co-founder Stacy Spikes explains his latest project, PreShow.
That's a wrap for the Talking Tech newsletter.
Please subscribe, https://technewsletter.usatoday.com, follow me on Twitter (@jeffersongraham) YouTube and Instagram, and listen to the daily Talking Tech podcast on Apple Podcasts or wherever you listen to online audio.
Apple on the environment: Doing right for the planet is good for business Apple is all in on addressing climate change.
Ahead of Earth Day, Apple announced progress on some of its latest green initiatives, notably that it has nearly doubled the number of suppliers that have committed to run their Apple production on 100% clean energy, bringing the total number of those suppliers to 44.
Store timed to coincide with Tuesday's annual celebration of Earth Day in Sydney, Tuesday, April 22, 2014.
(AP Photo/Rick Rycroft) (Photo: Rick Rycroft, AP) This means Apple will exceed its goal of bringing 4 gigawatts of renewable energy into its supply chain by 2020, with more than an additional gigawatt on the grid projected within that timeframe.
For context, 5 gigawatts of clean energy powers about 1.5 million homes in the U.S., says Lisa Jackson, Apples vice president of environment, policy and social initiatives, who had been administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under President Barack Obama.
Sony PlayStation Network username change: Want to change your PlayStation Network username?
Sony will soon let you Debit cards for kids: Can prepaid debit cards for kids make them smarter about money?
A year ago, Apple announced that all of its global facilities are powered by 100% renewable energy.
For the third year in a row, it has reduced its carbon footprint.
Apple also said it has achieved major progress to address environmental solutions by allocating all $2.5 billion in its previously announced green bonds.
Through such allocations, Apple has contributed to 40 environment initiatives around the world, including includes projects it has created to cover its entire electricity load.
As of this past January, around 66 percent of the renewable energy Apple uses comes from these endeavors.
The green bonds support various projects like solar rooftops in Japan, an aquifer to conserve water in Oregon and the creation of a custom alloy made of 100 percent recycled aluminum ore that is now found in Apple's latest MacBook Air and Mac mini computers.
Shortly after the U.S. pulled out of the Paris climate accord in 2017, we wanted the world to know that we, Apple, are still in and still committed to tackling the challenge of climate change, Jackson says.
She added that there is increased urgency by people, many who are younger, to tackle climate issues.
We need to demonstrate that this is doable, possible and done and not keep talking about why it cant happen.
And I think were going to see more and more of that as climate change starts to take a toll on communities around the world.
Activism is already on display elsewhere.
On Wednesday, for example, more than 4,200 Amazon employees calling themselves Amazon Employees for Climate Justice wrote an open letter to CEO Jeff Bezos asking the company to adopt a shareholder resolution and release a company-wide climate plan.
Among other principles, the group wants Amazon to completely move away from fossil fuels and to prioritize climate impact when making business decisions.
In our mission to become 'Earths most customer-centric company, we believe our climate impact must be a top consideration in everything we do.
We have the power to shift entire industries, inspire global action on climate, and lead on the issue of our lifetimes, the letter read.
Amazon has not yet responded to a USA TODAY email request for comment.
For her part, Jackson of Apple believes the private sector has a role and that governments need to move faster.
She says one of the toughest sectors to move on climate issues is manufacturing.
We think we have a unique opportunity to move the planet forward by using our voice and lending support of strong climate action and working to send a clear message to lawmakers that renewable energy is good for business, she says.
We find ways for companies to do this where its fine for their bottom line.
(And) to dispel this notion that somehow doing right by the climate and the planet is somehow bad for business.
Its not.
Email: ebaig@usatoday.com; Follow @edbaig on Twitter Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2019/04/11/apple-on-the-environment-doing-right-by-the-climate-is-good-for-business/3427400002/
Listen to the Talking Tech podcast CLOSE Jefferson Graham offers tips on how to listen to the Talking Tech podcast via apps, speakers, TVs and the car.
USA TODAY The Talking Tech podcast is available for you every day with a quick hit on the latest tech news, gadget reviews, opinion on tech trends and interviews with insiders.
On this page, you'll find quick links to all of our shows.
In this file photo taken on September 7, 2016 The Apple logo is seen on the outside of Bill Graham Civic Auditorium before the start of an event in San Francisco, California.
(Photo: JOSH EDELSON, AFP/Getty Images) How to listen: You can hear #TalkingTech on: Stitcher (on both Apple and Android.)
Apple Podcasts (Apple devices only.)
Google Podcasts (Android devices only.)
Spotify or wherever you like to enjoy online audio.
Please rate and review the show on Apple Podcasts and "Favorite" us on Stitcher to help Talking Tech reach a wider audience.
For voice command on demand listening: We have a new Alexa/Talking Tech skill!
In the Alexa smartphone app (which you use to control the Amazon Echo speakers), you enable the Talking Tech Flash Briefing skill.
Open the app, go to Settings, and click on Flash Briefings.
From there, you can access search.
Just type in "Talking Tech" and then enable the skill.
Now, each morning, you can either say, "Alexa, play Talking Tech Flash Briefing," or "Alexa, play my Flash Briefing."
If you don't want the hassle, you can also on: iPhone/iPad: Say "Hey Siri, play Talking Tech with Jefferson Graham," and the show will directly come up via voice command.
Google Home connected speaker: Just say "Hey Google, play Talking Tech with Jefferson Graham."
Amazon Echo/Alexa: "Alexa, play USA TODAY Talking Tech podcast."
Follow USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham (@jeffersongraham) on Twitter, Instagram and YouTube.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2018/10/09/listen-talking-tech-podcast/1580909002/
Amazon's new Kindle is hereare the new features worth the upgrade?
Amazon's new Kindle is hereare the new features worth the upgrade?
(Photo: Reviewed.com) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
At some point in the last decade, reading stopped being an activity I did outside of my home.
I used to read books at the park, on public transport, and even at the pub.
These days, if Im out-and-about and need to pass the time, youll probably find me with my nose buried in my phone.
Cracking open a book, Im sad to say, is a ritual reserved for my sofa.
Unsurprisingly, Im reading lessa lot less.
And Im not proud of it.
The all-new Amazon Kindleavailable on Amazon for about $110 starting todayis the rare sort of device that I didnt know I needed until I used it.
We received a loan unit (along with one of Amazon's official Kindle covers) last week, and like any good book, I've had a hard time putting it down.
The Kindles stripped-down approach is, frankly, refreshing: to put the world of literature at your fingertips without the buzz, buzz, buzzing of texts, emails, and breaking news.
The newest model incorporates some of the features found in higher-end versions of the device, making it a smart investment for readers who may have been on the fence about the Kindle in the past.
Whats new about the new Kindle?
This time around, the most noteworthy upgrade to the entry-level Kindle are the four adjustable LED lights.
This means that people who opt for Amazon's base model Kindle will finally be able to read in the dark.
(Photo: Reviewed / Michael Desjardin) Amazons newest Kindle is an updated version of the tried-and-true, entry-level model.
In other words, this is the Kindle to buy if youre looking for the essential Kindle features and none of the bells and whistles.
That said, this new, updated Kindle does offer a handful of features that were absent in previous generations.
The biggest upgrade comes in the form of four adjustable, front-facing LED lights.
While previous entry-level Kindles left their users in the dark, the 10th generation Kindle is all about illumination.
The lights themselves dont just operate on a binary switch, eitherthere are 24 levels of brightness to choose from.
Amazon also reportedly made changes to the Kindles e-ink display and capacitive touch technology, though these changes might not be apparent to new users.
It's hard for me to say definitively if e-ink text looks crisper on this Kindle than it does on its predecessor, or if the touch controls feel tighter, but I can definitively say that I had no qualms with either.
Along with the device itself, Amazon included their official cover in their review kit.
I didn't spend much time testing the cover, so I can't speak to its durability and overall quality.
That said, the official Kindle cover is only $30 on Amazon, and every Kindle-owning co-worker I spoke to about the covers seems to swear by them.
Should I get the new Kindle or the Kindle Paperwhite?
The Kindle Paperwhite (seen here) is a little pricier than the all-new Kindle, but it's still our pick for the overall best Kindle thanks to its flexible storage options and water-resistant hardware.
(Photo: Reviewed / Michael Roorda) While theres much to love about the Kindle Oasis, Amazons most lavish high-end e-reader, Id like to focus on how the all-new Kindle stacks up against the newest Kindle Paperwhite.
My reasoning is simple: These are the two Kindles that I imagine most folks are going to ultimately choose between, and the Kindle Paperwhite is our favorite Kindle to date.
Now that the new entry-level Kindle also offers an illuminated display (albeit with fewer LEDs), the mid-level Kindle Paperwhite features one less advantage over its more affordable counterpart.
Still, the Paperwhitewhich retails for roughly $30-$50 more than the entry-level Kindlejustifies its increased cost by including a higher display resolution (300 ppi versus the entry-level Kindles 167 ppi), water-resistant hardware, higher-capacity storage options, and a battery that Amazon claims will last a few weeks longer than the one powering the base-level Kindle.
Theres also a 32GB, cellular-connected version of the Kindle Paperwhite.
For the time being, lets set aside display resolution and battery life; the Paperwhites higher-resolution display isnt that much better than the standard Kindles display chops, and readers of both Kindles will typically enjoy several weeks of battery life, whether its four weeks or six.
If you don't mind being limited to 4GB of storage and don't see yourself needing a water-resistant Kindle, there's never been a better time to invest in Amazon's entry-level e-reader.
(Photo: Reviewed / Michael Desjardin) The choice, then, ultimately comes down to two things: storage capacity and water resistance.
The all-new, entry-level Kindle is only available with 4GB of storage.
The Paperwhite, on the other hand, is available in 8GB and 32GB models.
Additionally, while the new base model Kindle is more affordable than the Paperwhite, its also probably not going to survive an accidental dump in the pool.
If higher storage capacity and water resistance are must-have features for you, we recommend spending a little more money on the Kindle Paperwhiteour current pick for the best Kindle you can buy.
Right now, you can buy the Kindle Paperwhite on sale starting at just $130.
If you don't need 8GB or more of storage and don't see yourself needing a water-resistant e-reader, there's never been a better time to invest in the entry-level Kindle.
Starting today, you can buy the all-new Kindle on Amazon starting at around $90.
Note: The $90 version of the Kindle is discounted because it comes with "Special Offers," which is basically Amazon's way of describing advertisements that appear on your Kindle's default lock screen.
We recommend spending $20 more for the version without ads, but if you're strapped for cash at the moment, you can always pick up the cheaper model and pay to get rid of the ads at a later date.
The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest, deals, product reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/04/10/amazons-new-kindle-is-hereare-the-new-features-worth-the-upgrade/39326385/
Nope, the iPhone doesn't have the best camera EL SEGUNDO, Calif.
I'm in an aisle at a Whole Foods Market, testing the difference between shooting a video on the new Samsung Galaxy S10+, and a back-to-back shot on an iPhone.
I'm walking at a slow pace, and the video on the Galaxy practically looks like I have a Steadicam or gimbal attached to it.
It's that good.
The iPhone is not only shaky, but it's not as wide and crisp as what I picked up on the Galaxy.
Then it hits me: For all the "Shot on an iPhone" advertising and contests from Apple, sorry, the iPhone isn't the best smartphone camera anymore.
In my tests of the Galaxy S10+, I found more versatility, steadier video and overall more pleasing results than with recent iPhone models.
Shooting down the aisle at Whole Foods on Galaxy S10+ (Photo: Jefferson Graham) Hey, iPhone owners: Will you subscribe to anything Apple?
Price cut: Apple cuts HomePod price by $50 as smart speaker battle intensifies The iPhone camera is great, but the Galaxy is better.
Here's why: There are three main lenses on the Galaxy to two on premium iPhones.
I'm a photographer.
I want to get closer to the action, and I want the ability to go wide without having to plug an accessory lens on the phone.
I like the versatility of having three main choices at my disposal, versus one on the Google Pixel and 2 on the iPhone.
On the main Galaxy camera, Samsung offers a 13mm superwide, 26mm wide angle and 52mm for portraits, similar to what Apple has on the Plus versions for its "telephoto" lens.
(There are also two lenses for Selfie mode, one normal, the other wider, to fit more people into the shot.)
The Riviera Mexican Grill in Redondo Beach, shot in super wide mode on Galaxy S10+ (Photo: Jefferson Graham) Riviera Mexican Grill, shot on Samsung Galaxy S10+ in wide angle (Photo: Jefferson Graham) Riviera Mexican Grill, shot with closeup lens on Samsung Galaxy S10+ (Photo: Jefferson Graham) The third ultra-wide lens is like having a GoPro on your phone.
It's a little wacky, a little distorted, but it does the job, especially in video, where the wider shots help in movement when the camera soars.
Plus, if you visit a place like the Grand Canyon or Zion National Park, you will really appreciate the extra reach.
(However, a GoPro still has its place, and you're not going to attach a Galaxy to a bike helmet or surfboard.)
Take a look at the videos below, which show the image stabilization of the two phones.
Admittedly, we are walking down the street for these shots, which are a camera shake magnet, but you'll see that the S10+ is steadier.
Where the Galaxy doesn't compare too well to the iPhone is in gimmicks and tricks.
Apple has very easy-to-understand photo tools.
Beyond Pano, Slow Motion and Time Lapse, there's "Portrait Mode," to add blur to the background and Live mode, which gives you a snippet of video with your photo.
From there, you get the best iOS software trick, making water flow in a "Long Exposure."
This is unique to iOS, and if it can be copied on Android, I haven't found a way.
For an example, look below.
iPhone long exposure trick on iPhone XS Max (Photo: Jefferson Graham) The Manhattan Beach Pier, shot on Samsung Galaxy S10+ (Photo: Jefferson Graham) Samsung wants to wow you with camera trickery, and there are simply too many of them to focus on.
Beyond the staples, like Pano and Slo Mo, Samsung has "Super Slo Mo," a professional setting for manual controls (which I like) and Live Focus, which is Samsung's answer to Portrait Mode, as well as 50 "Scene Optimizers" that work in the background to enhance photos.
On Live Focus, you get four different lighting setups, some of which work, sometimes, others, maybe.
For instance, I took a photo of a red glass, and Samsung turned the background into black and white.
Great.
But the rim of the glass missed and there are some blank spots that can't be altered after the fact.
A Samsung lighting trick gone sour (Photo: Jefferson Graham) Standard Light For pure photos, take a look at these two shots of Manhattan Beach below.
The Galaxy is a little bluer, while iPhone looks warm.
Both are more than acceptable.
Which do you prefer?
Manhattan Beach, photographed on Samsung Galaxy S10+ (Photo: Jefferson Graham) Manhattan Beach, photographed on iPhone XS Max (Photo: Jefferson Graham) Low Light Overall, both cameras are great in daylight.
Other critics have written that the Galaxy performs poorly in low light compared to the best of the breed, which is the Google Pixel 3.
I agree that the Pixel is better in that department.
But when compared to the iPhone, the Galaxy wins.
As it should.
The iPhone has a lens opening of 1.8 for the main lens, to 1.5 for the Galaxy, which means the S10+ lets in more light than the iPhone lenses.
(And the Pixel's one less lens takes it out of consideration for me.
Google touts "computational photography," but without the extra lens, you're not going to be able to go wider at a party or the Grand Canyon.)
Take a look at these photos, taken in near darkness on the XS Max and S10+.
Batteries shot in virtual darkness on Samsung Galaxy S10+ (Photo: Jefferson Graham) Batteries photographed in near darkness on iPhone XS Max (Photo: Jefferson Graham) The Galaxy S10 series starts at $799.
We tested the S10+, which starts at $899 and has a larger 6.4-inch screen than the S10's 6.1, as well as a longer lasting battery.
(The iPhone Max XS starts at $1,099.)
The iPhone is still a fabulous camera, with easier to use transfers in the iOS software from phones to computer and other phones, and I'm huge on the Long Exposure trick.
But with three main lenses over two, steadier image stabilization on video and overall crisper images, it's hard not to reach the conclusion that the iPhone is no longer the best smartphone camera.
Readers, what do you think?
Let's debate it on Twitter, where I'm @jeffersongraham Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2019/04/10/samsung-galaxy-s-10-vs-apple-iphone-which-smartphone-cameras-better/3406278002/
CLOSE Muscle recovery tools to speed up healing.
The Vyper Vibrating Foam Roller and Hypervolt vibration massage device are there to assist.
Josmar Taveras, USA TODAY Chris Duncan's body doesn't recover like it used to.
The 32-year-old tax attorney is a former wrestler and powerlifter, but now he says that years of overtraining and sitting at a desk for hours on end have caused regular aches and pains that need more attention than his once-a-month physical therapy session.
His solution: technology.
The Denver resident invested in a wide range of gadgets over the past few years that provide targeted relief in the spots he needs it most.
His collection, which includes everything from pulsating massage guns to wearables that vibrate and heat up, cost him about $2,000.
"Its not cheap, but being laid up with an injury isnt cheap either," Duncan said.
While training at home, on the trail or at the gym, we use everything from Fitbits to fitness apps to maximize our efforts.
But experts say that people tend to overemphasize the time they spend working out and underestimate the importance of the recovery that comes afterward.
Download these: 14 fitness apps can help you get in shape, lose weight, stay fit and get free swag 'It saved my life': 'It saved my life': Apple Watch, Fitbit are notifying users of medical emergencies "Your workouts are only as good as your ability to recover from them," said Lawrence Serrahn, a fitness professional at Life Time Athletic Club in New York City who has spent over 20 years working as a personal trainer.
"Training adds stress to the body.
And when we get to a point where our body is taking on too much stress, our ability to recover from our workouts goes down," Serrahn said.
That's where technology can step in, vibrating, freezing and compressing your muscles so that you can stay consistent with fewer pains, said Serrahn.
Just scroll through Instagram and you'll find an expanding number of fitness enthusiasts who are awakening to the claims that next level recovery tools are the wave of the future.
Experts say that some of the innovative gadgets actually work.
Find my tech: How ordinary people are locating their stolen devices Want to reward your workout?
Maybe you should head to Kohl's Increase circulation The Hypervolt ($349) is a cordless massage device accelerates warmup and recovery, according to experts.
(Photo: Robert Hanashiro, USAT) "Before you even start to work out, a lot of these products are good at awakening your nervous system and loosening up tight muscles," said Patrick Gumabao, a certified massage therapist who works with athletes at the Bethesda University in California.
Afterward, they aid with relieving muscle soreness and help your body adapt to the micro tears your muscles get while working out, Gumabao said.
Percussion massagers, which are handheld devices that apply pulses of concentrated pressure deep into your muscle tissue, are a common form of recovery technology.
When used properly, they can improve blood flow and enhance the range of motion, according to Nicky Kirk, a chiropractic sports physician who refers to himself as "The Recovery Doctor."
"By creating increased blood flow into a specific area, you can target a specific muscle that you want to warm up or prep for an exercise," Kirk said.
He said that his clients say they feel more relaxed after using handheld gadgets like Hypervolt, which is a cordless device that uses a powerful motor to stiff muscles and improving mobility.
Reduce inflammation This vibrating foam roller increases range of motion by up to 40 percent, according to Lawrence Serrahn, a fitness professional at Lifetime Athletic club in NYC.
(Photo: Michael Scott Slosar) Whenever there's an injury present, the body's natural response is to send blood to the area.
Experts say tech products that compress the site can reduce pain and make muscles more mobile.
"While inflammation is needed to recover, we want to decrease that swelling so we can move around with less pain," Gumabao said.
"If you've ever had a painfully swollen ankle, for example, the pain that you feel when you put pressure on it can be helped by using the Hypervolt."
Kirk said that several of his clients, which include athletes and clinicians, get relief by using NormaTec Compression boots, which are sleeves that have internal compartments that circulate air.
The stockings use compressed air to massage your limbs and move fluid from your extremities toward your core, which can help "with the removal of waste products post-exercise," Kirk said.
The waste products include lactic acid, which builds up in the muscle tissue during strenuous activity.
Kirk said people leave NormaTec sessions feeling "loose and more mobile.
They have a sense of comfort and ease," which could be because the device "tends to slow the heart rate down."
A single NormaTec session can cost $20 for 30 minutes.
The entire leg recovery system costs $1,295.
Reduce injury One of the most important byproducts of recovery technology is the reduced likelihood of injury, experts say.
If you use products like vibrating foam rollers before you hit the weights, "you're prepping your body for what's ahead," Gumabao said.
"If your body isn't properly prepped, that's when you start to feel pain."
On the back-end of exercising, some people are turning to Cryochambers for injury reduction.
You'll see the extreme-cold treatment performed everywhere from Instagram to reality TV shows.
Proponents do the sub-zero shimmy inside liquid nitrogen cooled saunas as a friend records them counting down the seconds until they can exit the futuristic chamber.
Kirk said the jury is still out on whether some of the claimed benefits of Cryotherapy are real.
"The manufacturers may tell you they decrease injury risk or that they speed up metabolism, but a lot of that isnt verifiable," Kirk said.
Over-reliance Kirk and Gumabao both said that recovery tech becomes dangerous once people start depending too much on any one product.
"In extreme cases, it can become a crutch that predominates over the exercise," said Kirk.
"Somebody might use a foam roller for 15 minutes, followed by a short amount of time doing exercise, then finish up with recovery equipment for another 15 minutes.
That's not conducive to getting things done in the gym."
He said that working out should remain your priority and that recovery falls secondary.
Over-reliance aside, Kirk says the technology is inherently safe.
"Theyre mostly passive types of therapy.
You lie there and you take it basically," Kirk said.
"For your healthy active people, its all very low risk."
While gadgets are "exciting," Gumabao warns that technology shouldn't replace the best form of recovery rest.
"People rely on tech because it has benefits, but most of the results are just temporary," Gumabao said.
"The number one thing you should do is get enough sleep."
What tech do you take to the gym with you?
Let Dalvin Brown know on Twitter: @Dalvin_Brown.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/2019/04/10/workout-recovery-tech-these-gadgets-can-help-soreness-injuries/3398336002/
CLOSE Not that they'll do anything you ask them to.
Buzz60 A new study says that cats can learn and react to the sound of their own name.
It also claims to be the first experimental evidence that cats can discern human speech.
The results published Thursday in journal Scientific Reports do not suggest cats can attach meaning to words or understand their name refers to their identity, researcher Atsuko Saito of Sophia University in Tokyo explained.
Rather, Japanese scientists documented that cats reacted differently to their own name as compared to other words they perked up.
That happens because the animals hear their name often and begin to respond to the word, Saito explained.
Cats learn that their name is often followed by rewards such as food or play but sometimes before negative events like a visit to the vet.
The new study confirms that "cats are paying attention to you, what you say and what you do, and they're learning from it," said Monique Udell, who also studies animal behavior at Oregon State.
The study used four experiments with 16 to 34 animals in its analysis.
In those experiments researchers used the cats' owner's voices in some situations and a stranger's voice in others.
Cats who lived in homes and at "cat cafs" were studied.
"From the results of all experiments, it thus appears that at least cats living in ordinary households can distinguish their own names from general words and names of other cats," the study reads.
Dogs' ability to learn human words has been extensively researched, and the authors cited evidence that dogs could learn hundreds of words.
And while the study's authors say some cat owners have reported their pet has learned multiple words, little research had previously been done to verify these observations.
Contributing: The Associated Press Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/science/2019/04/04/cats-can-learn-react-sound-their-name-new-study-says/3371501002/
CLOSE Thanks to a study on the Kelly twins, NASA confirms that space travel can change astronauts' genes, even after returning to Earth.
USA TODAY Space travelers in movies may zip around the universe with no ill effects, but in reality we have no idea how humans will react to being in outer space for years on end.
Now, new NASA research released Thursday said that astronaut Scott Kelly's year in space aboard the International Space Station apparently didn't bring him any notable health issues.
Thus, NASA said that human health can likely be "mostly sustained" for a year in space, and bodes well for even longer treks to Mars.
From 2015 to 2016, Scott Kelly became the first American astronaut to spend almost a full year in space.
During that time on board the space station, though he experienced a few temporary changes to his weight, eyes, immune system and genes, most everything returned to near-normal a few months after returning to Earth.
One odd change was in Scott Kelly's telomeres, the protective ends of chromosomes.
Those tips gradually shorten as we get older, but in space, his telomeres got longer.
Another difference was that the activity of many of his genes how they switch on and off changed.
Double vision?
NASA astronaut Scott Kelly, left, and his twin Mark get together before a press conference Friday, in Houston.
Scott Kelly set a U.S. record with his 340 consecutive-day mission to the International Space Station.
(Photo: Pat Sullivan, AP) But NASA didn't just study Kelly's health during that year, they also compared his molecular, cognitive and physiological health effects in space to those of his earthbound twin brother, former astronaut Mark Kelly, who remained on Earth.
"Scott Kelly provided a test case to measure in space with Mark Kelly providing a baseline test case on Earth," NASA said.
Overall, the study said there were no long-lasting, major health differences between Scott and Mark.
NASA called the experiment a first-of-its-kind opportunity to track the biological consequences of spaceflight in genetic doubles.
Jennifer Fogarty, chief scientist of the Human Research Program, said that the study "demonstrated how a human body adapts and remains robust and resilient even after spending nearly a year aboard the International Space Station."
She said the data from the study "will be explored for years to come.
Looking ahead, NASA said Scott's one-year mission "is a stepping-stone to longer expeditions such as missions to Mars, which could take three years for a round trip."
But there was a caveat: Being in Earth's orbit is very different than being in outer space: For example, during his time on the space station, Scott remained within the protection of Earth's magnetic field and wasn't exposed to the potentially harmful radiation of deep space.
In addition, longer trips to destinations like Mars would include higher degrees of isolation and confinement, along with altered gravity fields.
The research involved 10 separate studies supported by 84 researchers across 12 universities, all coordinated by NASA's Human Research Program.
Results of the NASA Twins Study were published Thursday in the peer-reviewed journal Science.
Contributing: The Associated Press Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2019/04/11/nasa-twins-study-health-changes-between-astronauts-scott-and-mark-kelly/3437234002/
Government in the digital age should show online respect for citizens and their time.
They'd have more faith in the system and be more likely to vote.
Americans have neglected the machinery of government for more than a generation, which has had a corrosive effect on our democracy.
When government fails to deliver on its promises, people lose faith in our leaders, in our ability to address problems, and in our institutions.
The Digital Service Act introduced last month by Sen. Kamala Harris would invest $65 million a year in federal, state and local digital teams to improve government systems that deliver services to consumers.
The goal is to address governments well-known shortcomings in technology.
While the Harris proposal cant do it alone, its a big step in the right direction and we need many more like it.
But to see this as a technology bill misses the point.
Whats at stake here is much more than technology; its the very foundations of our democracy.
To understand what I mean, try applying for the federal government's Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP).
You can go into an office and fill out long paper forms, or you can try to start the process online.
In many counties in California, the online application (which doesnt work on a mobile phone despite the fact that most low-income Americans rely on mobile for Internet access) contains hundreds of questions spanning over 50 web pages.
HealthCare.gov website on Dec. 15, 2017.
(Photo: Jon Elswick, AP) Read more commentary: I worked for government for 25 years, now I can't believe anything it says The 2020 election is vulnerable.
Congress needs to guard against attacks starting now.
On Medicaid work requirements, who will judge the character judges?
It takes the better part of an hour to get through.
Several of those questions seem to assume you are a criminal.
Have you or any member of your household ever been convicted of trafficking (allowing use of or of selling EBT cards to others) SNAP benefits of $500 or more after September 22, 1996? "
How about drugs?
How about guns, ammunition, or explosives?
The message is clear: The government doesnt respect your time, and doesnt respect you.
It's the same message that comes through when you interact with a wide range of government services: applying for benefits from the Veterans Administration, Medicaid, or countless interactions with the criminal justice system.
Departments of motor vehicles are getting better, but for years their government technology systems have often failed to impress the public with their ease of use.
Poor service leads to less trust, less voting As painful as these services can be, theyre not the result of sadistic bureaucrats.
Theyre just the result of processes and cultures that put government needs, including compliance with many hundreds of rules and regulations, over what we call user needs.
That means that too often, our government fails to put people first, and the price of doing that is just too high.
That price is paid not just in dollars and cents, but in trust in our government.
The starkest example of these non-financial costs comes from Joe Soss, a political science professor at the University of Minnesota, who has studied the connection between how low-income people experience government services and their likelihood of voting.
He found that participating in means-tested benefits (benefits in which you must essentially prove you are poor enough to qualify) significantly reduces the chance you will vote.
Soss explains why: Because clients interpret their experiences with welfare bureaucracies as evidence of how government works more generally, beliefs about the welfare agency and client involvement become the basis for broader political orientations.
We cant afford this downward spiral of poor service leading to decreased political participation, which in turn erodes the accountability thats the cornerstone of democracy.
Respect people and their time How does a technology bill help with this?
With about $199 billionspent on government technology each year, the problem isnt a lack of funding.
The problem is the outdated way that government builds and buys technology like SNAP and Medicaid systems.
The Harris bill would permanently fund the United States Digital Service, which does things a different way: it puts people the users of these systems inside and outside government first.
And, with a little bit of funding that I wish were more, it would encourage states and municipalities to adopt the USDS model.
The USDS is famous for having saved healthcare.gov by employing the new user-centered principles and practices, and it keeps on doing that with benefits for veterans, processing refugees, and helping high school graduates understand their options.
The new way makes these services cost dramatically less at the same time that they convey respect for the people they serve.
The Digital Service Act wont cure all of governments woes.
Our old rules and regulations and, more importantly, our entrenched culture and practices, got us into the mess were in today.
They have been decades in the making and they'll be decades in the undoing.
But as senators start to look at this proposed legislation, I hope theyll see whats different about this approach, and get behind not only this bill, but a much larger agenda to make government work for the American people the way it should in a digital age.
Because unless we fix government services, faith in our democracy itself is at risk.
Jennifer Pahlka is the founder and executive director of Code for America.
As the U.S. Deputy Chief Technology Officer in the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy from 2013 to 2014, she designed and helped found the United States Digital Service.
You can read diverse opinions from our Board of Contributors and other writers on the Opinion front page, on Twitter @usatodayopinion and in our daily Opinion newsletter.
To respond to a column, submit a comment to letters@usatoday.com.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2019/04/12/digital-government-respect-citizens-restore-trust-democracy-column/3427525002/
BURBANK, Calif. Disney CEO and Chairman Robert Iger says he's going to step down from his post when his current contract expires in 2021.
Iger became Disney's president and chief operating officer in 2000 and added the CEO title in 2005 after Michael Eisner departed.
He became chairman in 2012.
Iger was asked about his future plans Thursday at a Disney investors' event that featured major new details about Disney's upcoming streaming service, Disney+.
During a Q&A after the presentation, an investor asked if Iger had anything to say about the possibility of ending his tenure, prefacing his remarks by saying, "We're all expecting your contract is over at the end of 2021."
Im expecting my contract to expire at the end of 2021," Iger quipped, before addressing the question.
"Id say, This time I mean it, but Ive said that before.
Ive been CEO since October 2005 and as Ive said many times, there's a time for everything and 2021 will be time for me to finally step down."
Iger had previously set a target departure date of 2018 but in March 2017, his contract was extended to July 2, 2019.
That December it was extended again through the end of 2021.
Disney+: New streaming service to launch Nov. 12 with new Marvel, Star Wars series Single and love Disney?
: Plenty of Fish says odds are in your favor for finding romance The 2021 extension was said to be contingent on the $71.3-billion acquisition of 21st Century Fox's movie and TV studios and other assets including Fox's 30% stake in Hulu.
The transaction closed in March.
Iger said he's been talking with the Disney board "for quite some time" about picking a successor.
"Theyve been engaged in a succession process and we continue to feel they will be able to identify my successor on a timely enough basis so that this company has a smooth transition, he said.
NEWSLETTERS Get the Managing Your Money newsletter delivered to your inbox We're sorry, but something went wrong A collection of articles to help you manage your finances like a pro.
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-800-872-0001.
Delivery: Fri Invalid email address Thank you!
You're almost signed up for Managing Your Money Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
More newsletters During his tenure at Disney, the entertainment giant has expanded its holdings to include Pixar in 2006, the Marvel comics brand in 2009 and Lucasfilm and its Star Wars franchise in 2012.
CLOSE Disney released the full trailer for "The Lion King," and it's glorious.
USA TODAY Follow USA TODAY reporter Kelly Tyko on Twitter: @KellyTyko Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2019/04/11/walt-disney-ceo-bob-iger-step-down-2021/3442748002/
CLOSE Amazon's Echo speakers have a broadcast feature that will help you send a message to family members that might be scattered around the house.
Sandy Hooper, USA TODAY If you have an Amazon Echo product, you aren't the only person privy to your private conversations.
Thousands of people across the globe are employed by Amazon.com to listen to Echo recordings, transcribe and annotate them and feed them back to the software so that Alexa can better grasp human speech, according to a report from Bloomberg.
The employees ranging from Boston to India signed nondisclosure agreements barring them to speak publicly about the program.
According to Bloomberg, they work nine hours per day, with each reviewer going through as many as 1,000 audio clips per shift.
While some of the recordings are more in the realm of the mundane, such as singing in the shower, others can be more serious.
Two employees told Bloomberg they heard something they believed to be a sexual assault.
As the Bloomberg report cites, Amazon has a job opening for a quality assurance manager.
The position's description states: "Every day (Alexa) listens to thousands of people talking to her about different topics in different languages, and she needs our help to make sense of it all."
Green tech: Apple wants to prove doing right for the planet is good for business Store shutdown: Fred's to close 159 stores and start clearance sales at 360 locations "This is big data handling like youve never seen it.
Were creating, labeling, curating and analyzing vast quantities of speech on a daily basis," the description reads.
"At any time we have a host of programs running that use that data to launch new languages, build new features and improve Alexas understanding of the world."
An Amazon spokesperson responded to USA TODAY with a statement that reads, "By default, Echo devices are designed to detect only your chosen wake word (Alexa, Amazon, Computer or Echo).
The device detects the wake word by identifying acoustic patterns that match the wake word.
No audio is stored or sent to the cloud unless the device detects the wake word (or Alexa is activated by pressing a button).
Critics of Amazon's Echo products have pointed to potential privacy violations.
In 2015, the Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) asked the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice to conduct a comprehensive investigation" into Alexa and other home-listening devices, according to Marc Rotenberg, president and executive director of EPIC.
"There is an exception in the original wiretap act that allows services providers, such as telephone companies, to listen to calls for the purpose of improving the service, checking for example line impedance," Rotenberg said.
"But it was never imagined that a telephone company could have a commercial interest in the contents of a phone call.
The world is very different with Amazon because that company is very interested in everything its customers do."
Amazon defends its actions, with a company spokesperson saying that the company takes "security and privacy of our customers personal information seriously" and only annotates "an extremely small number of interactions from a random set of customers."
"We have strict technical and operational safeguards, and have a zero tolerance policy for the abuse of our system," the spokesperson said.
"Employees do not have direct access to information that can identify the person or account as part of this workflow."
Alexa users can disable the use of their voice recordings for the development of new features in Amazon's privacy settings or delete.
Would you talk money on a first date?
Millennials may, a survey suggests Tax refund debate: Is it better for your wallet to get a tax refund or nothing at all?
Amazon's Echo products can listen into the home.
(Photo: Amazon) Does this change how you feel about voice assistants?
Share your thoughts with USA TODAY intern Ben Tobin on Twitter: @TobinBen Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/2019/04/11/amazon-employees-listening-alexa-customers/3434732002/
The best Samsung 4K TV is at its lowest price right now Get huge savings on one of the best Samsung screens.
(Photo: Reviewed / Lee Neikirk) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA Todays newsroom and any business incentives.
If you really care about having impeccable viewing quality for movies, sports, the final season of Game of Thrones, and everything in between, then you're going want to watch it on one of the best TVs money can buy.
In an ideal world, you'd be able to get a new Samsung QLED TV for its impeccable imagethe only issue is they usually come with a steep price tag.
Typically, the 65-inch Q9 QLED TV goes for $2,700, which is out of budget for most of us and not something we'd recommend considering the other options out there, like the LG OLED lineup that we also love.
But luckily for you, we got wind of an unlisted deal from Massdrop on the 65-inch Q9 for just $1,900 (that's $800 in savings!).
This is literally the lowest price we've ever seen for this TV by $100, and frankly an incredible deal for any QLED TV, especially one this big.
When we tested the Samsung Q9, we loved the sleek and minimalist design and its added features like "ambient mode" that displays an image and the time or weather while the TV itself is offwith zero screen burn.
The Q9 also uses quantum dot technology (hence the Q), which boosts its light output and color volume to create an amazing contrast that enhances the viewing experience.
Did we mention it might completely ruin watching movies on any other TV?
I will say it again: The Q9 is one of the best TVs we've ever tested.
And, honestly, it would have been our pick for best of the year if it wasn't for the too-high initial price tag.
But with this sale, it's a much more reasonable purchase price if you've wanted a serious upgrade.
If 65 inches is too small for you, you can also get the 75-inch model for $2,999, which gives you about $2,000 in savingsnot too bad for a massive screen.
To access these insane deals, you do need to make an account with Massdrop, but it's free and will only take a few minutes of your time.
You should also note that these TVs won't ship until May 6, so you'll have to wait a bit for your new screen.
But for this low price point, we still think it's worth it.
Warning: This deal is only good until Monday, April 15, and there's only a limited number of units for sale, so you should act sooner than later if you want to snag this deal.
The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest deals, reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/04/11/samsung-q-9-gn-65-inch-tv-its-lowest-price-right-now/3438267002/
A Japanese newspaper reported Thursday morning that Tesla and Panasonic have delayed expansion plans for Tesla's Nevada Gigafactory and Panasonic also intends to suspend investments in a new Shanghai factory.
(Photo: Justin Sullivan / Getty Images) Shares of Tesla Inc. dropped by about $10 Thursday morning on a report that the company and investment partner Panasonic have frozen their plan to lift production by 50% at Tesla's Nevada Gigafactory battery plant.
At the end of last month, the plant's capacity was 35 gigawatt-hours (GWh) at the site near Reno.
Panasonic is taking the additional step of suspending further investment in Tesla's new Gigafactory near Shanghai.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk said last November that the company would manufacture all its battery modules and packs at the new Shanghai plant, where it also planned to build more vehicles.
The decision was first reported by Nikkei Asian Review, saying only that it had "learned" of the suspension without citing any sources.
Panasonic has said it will study further expansion of the Nevada plant and that it was considering possibilities for the Shanghai plant.
Electric car tax credit: Trump wants to end $7,500 incentive, members of Congress move to stop him Samsung's latest: Reservations start Friday for nearly $2,000 Galaxy Fold, S10 5G arrives in May A Tesla spokesman told Nikkei, "We will of course continue to make new investments in Gigafactory 1, as needed."
The Nevada Gigafactory has enough capacity to supply batteries for 500,000 vehicles a year.
Under the now-scrapped plan, the plant's capacity was expected to reach 54 GWh a year by 2020.
Additional capacity from China was projected to raise vehicle production to 1 million units a year.
A combination of logistical problems, lower U.S. federal incentives for buyers and weaker demand for the Tesla Model 3 sent Tesla's stock down by nearly 10% when the company reported first-quarter deliveries last month.
The company is scheduled to report first-quarter financial results on April 24.
Tesla and Panasonic have invested $4.5 billion in the Nevada Gigafactory, and Panasonic was considering a further investment of $900 million to $1.35 billion before the delay was revealed this morning.
Tesla's battery business reportedly added more than $180 million to Panasonic's operating losses in the Japanese company's fiscal year that ended in March.
Delays in Model 3 production made the losses worse.
NEWSLETTERS Get the Managing Your Money newsletter delivered to your inbox We're sorry, but something went wrong A collection of articles to help you manage your finances like a pro.
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-800-872-0001.
Delivery: Fri Invalid email address Thank you!
You're almost signed up for Managing Your Money Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
More newsletters Tesla stock traded down about 2.9% at $267.85 midday Thursday, in a 52-week range of $247.77 to $387.46.
The consensus price target on the stock is $314.05.
24/7 Wall Street is a USA TODAY content partner offering financial news and commentary.
Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY.
Tempered demand?
: Tesla ships 63,000 vehicles in Q1, missing expectations Tesla's Model Y: New SUV hits the right note by playing it safe Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2019/04/11/why-tesla-panasonic-are-delaying-gigafactory-expansion/39331801/
CLOSE Its called Stadia.
Time, Time Get ready gamers: Google is ready to take on Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo in the gaming space.
At the annual Game Developers Conference the technology giant announced its new Stadia gaming platform, looking to make it easier to not just make video games but play them on any screen you own including phones, computers and TVs.
Stadia, which will launch later in 2019, promises new ways to connect with games including a Play button on YouTube videos that will launch you from the video into that game.
Google demonstrated the new platform at the annual event Tuesday in San Francisco.
While showing a video of the game "Assassin's Creed Odyssey," it was shown how a "Play" button on the YouTube video could transport the viewer right into the game.
Often a player gets the urge to play a game while watching a video, but has to boot up a game console or another program on their computer.
This Stadia feature would get players into a game in "as quick as five seconds with no download, no patch, no update and no install," said Google vice president and general manager Phil Harrison, a former Sony and Microsoft game executive who joined Google last year.
"Stadia offers instant access to play ... (and reduces) the friction between getting excited about a game and playing a game," he said.
Other features built into Google's game-streaming platform include Crowd Play for instant joining and coordination of multiplayer games and Google Assistant-style help feature when players get stuck in games.
Last October, Google began Project Stream, a four-month PC streaming video game test that included Ubisoft's "Assassin's Creed Odyssey."
"We learned we could bring a triple A game to any platform using Chrome (Google's web browser)," Google CEO Sundar Pichai said at the event.
"We are dead serious about making this technology accessible to everyone," he said.
As opposed to downloading games to a hard drive, Stadia will tap into Googles vast global server network the same one that powers Google Search to stream the games to your devices.
"The data center is your platform, says head of engineering Majd Baker.
In another demonstration, the same game was handed off from a Pixel Chromebook, successively to a Pixel smartphone, desktop PC, tablet and then to a television using Chromecast.
Google vice president and general manager Phil Harrison on stage during Google's announcement of its Stadia video game platform at the Game Developers Conference Tuesday, March 19, in San Francisco.
(Photo: Google) Games will be able to stream in 4K at 60 frames per second, rivaling the graphical power of the Xbox One X and PlayStation 4 Pro.
Users can use a USB controller or Google's new Stadia remote that features WiFi to connect directly to the data center.
Google's controller also has a button dedicated to streaming to YouTube and one for summoning the Google Assistant for in-game help.
No pricing information was announced for the service or the controller.
Another feature, called State Share, would let players send a link via YouTube, email or other manner letting others pick up a game at a specific spot.
"I can create moments specifically for this kind of sharing," said Dylan Cuthbert, founder of game studio Q-Games and developer of games such as "Star Fox 64 3D" and "PixelJunk Monsters."
Can switch from Chrome OS to phone to Windows PC seamlessly.
That looks insanely cool.
#stadiapic.twitter.com/PJ0Gy1SILc Eli Blumenthal (@eliblumenthal) March 19, 2019 Cuthbert has a game in development that uses the feature.
He says he hopes to "let the internet turn my game into an infinite replayable treasure hunt."
More than 100 game studios have Stadia development tools now.
Among other developers working on games to play on Stadia is id Software, which will bring its "Doom Eternal" to the service.
Google will also open its own Stadia Games and Entertainment studio, which will bring its own first-party games to market and seek to remaster classic games to the system, said studio head Jade Raymond, previously a producer and executive producer with games such as "Assassin's Creed" and "Watch Dogs" with Ubisoft and worked on Star Wars games at Electronic Arts before joining Google recently.
"We are on the brink of a huge revolution in gaming, one that will unlock a whole new level of creativity for developers," she said.
Google is not alone in its vision of a cloud gaming future for video games a vision that could certainly make games a more economical proposition for consumers.
Microsoft and Electronic Arts are both working on cloud services, with Microsoft teasing a similar vision last year with its Project xCloud.
All this industry activity will grow cloud gaming subscriptions from an estimated $234 million last year to $1.5 billion in 2023, estimates research firm IHS Markit.
While Google has strengths in its network, devices and Chrome browser, "arguably both Microsoft and (Chinese gaming and internet giant) Tencent are better positioned with strengths in both infrastructure and content," said Piers Harding-Rolls, IHS Markit's head of games research, in an analysis Tuesday.
"I do not expect a Google cloud gaming proposition to dramatically impact the next cycle of console sales, but it may start to pick up some users that are not ready to spend $400 on a new console at launch," he said.
The future of gaming is not a box.
It's a place.
This is Stadia.
One place for all the ways we play https://t.co/v2jJTUWkYzpic.twitter.com/LlIHbjigDR Stadia (@GoogleStadia) March 19, 2019 Follow USA TODAY reporter Mike Snider on Twitter: @MikeSnider.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/news/2019/03/19/google-opens-up-video-gaming-across-devices-stadia-platform/3204415002/
A lot of the time, we approach shopping with the mentality that more expensive products equals better products.
Dont get me wrongthere are definitely some items worth splurging on, but the most expensive option is rarely the best.
Want proof?
Here are 25 product categories where a less expensive model out-performs a high-end product.
Just think of all the money you could save!
1.
Smart robotic vacuums Robotic vacuums are cool to begin with, and when you add smart technology, these hands-off cleaning gadgets are even more efficient.
However, there are definitely some models out there that are way too expensivewere talking $1,000 or more.
Instead, wed recommend the Eufy BoostIQ RoboVac 30C, which comes with an easy-to-use app where you can set cleaning schedules, start the vacuum and more.
Plus, this budget-friendly smart vacuum picked up quite a bit of dirt in our testing, rivaling the performance of vacuums more than double its price.
Get the Eufy BoostIQ RoboVac 30C on Amazon for $299.99 2.
Decked-out waffle makers Look, I love waffles and small kitchen appliances as much as the next person, but theres really no reason for you to be spending $100+ on a waffle maker, especially if you only use it once in a while.
Budget models like the Cuisinart Round Classic Waffle Maker, which took home the title of Best Value Pick during our testing, are friendly on your wallet and perform just as well as many high-end counterparts.
It even has a five-setting browning control that allows you to choose how well-done your waffle isall that for less than $30!
Get the Cuisinart WMR-CA Round Classic Waffle Maker on Amazon for $24.53 3.
Single-use water bottles If there's one thing we as a society waste far too much water on, it's, well, bottled water.
Even cheap bottled water is far more expensive than simply drinking from the tap, so do your wallet and the environment a favor and invest in a reusable water bottle instead.
If youre worried about the cleanliness of your tap water, products like the Brita Sport Water Bottle come with a built-in filter that removes impurities.
This particular model scored top marks in our water bottle testing, and it will save you a whole lot of money in the long run.
Get the Brita 20-Ounce Sport Water Bottle with Filter on Amazon for $14.55 4.
Down comforters Down comforters get hyped up as the gold standard of bedding, but they have some noteworthy flaws.
Theres always the chance of being poked by a rogue feather, many people are allergic to the material, and they're typically dry clean only.
Not to mention theyre extremely expensive.
Today, theres really no need to splurge on a true down blanket when there are so many great down alternatives out there.
One of the best comforters we've tested is the Linenspa All-Season Down Alternative Comforter, which looks and performs just like a high-end down optionbut at a fraction of the price.
Get the Linenspa All-Season Down Alternative Quilted Comforter on Amazon for $29.99 5.
Smartphones, like the latest iPhone Most of us rely on our smartphones to stay connected, but do we really need the latest and greatest version?
Apple typically releases multiple iPhones each year, and too often, people buy into the hype, shelling out thousands for a phone that isnt all that much better than previous editions.
If youre looking for a way to save money, wed actually recommend the Samsung Galaxy S8 as one of the best smartphonesit has an amazing camera, a sleek design, and top-notch performance.
Plus, its half the price of the iPhone XR.
Get the Samsung Galaxy S8 on Amazon for $406.50 6.
Fancy, schmancy cutting boards If you take anything away from this article, it should be that just because something has a high price tag doesnt mean its necessarily superior.
A lot of it is just branding.
For instance, one of our top-performing cutting boards is the Totally Bamboo Kauai Cutting Board, which costs approximately one quarter as much as name-brand options from specialty cooking stores.
Its balanced, yet lightweight, and it's made from bamboo, which is a sustainable resource since it grows significantly faster than trees.
With an option like this for just $20, theres no need to ever spend $100-plus on a cutting board.
Get the Totally Bamboo Kauai Cutting Board on Amazon for $19.95 7.
Baby strollers Most parents spare no expense when it comes to their children, but there are some amazing mid-price strollers that roll all over high-end "luxury" brands.
While theyre not the cheapest options out there, products like the Baby Jogger City Mini will still save you hundreds compared to some trendy $1,000-plus models.
This stroller from Baby Jogger got top marks when we tested the best strollers thanks to its light weight and easy-fold mechanism.
Its easy to drive, and the three-wheel design makes it a breeze to mount curbs.
So skip the designer brand stroller, save some cash and buy something else for your little ones instead.
Get the Baby Jogger 2016 City Mini 3W Single Stroller on Amazon for $195.99 8.
Fancy compressor ice cream makers Unless youre running an ice cream business, you really dont need a compressor-powered ice cream maker for home use.
The compressors used to cool down the bowl require a powerful motor, so even low-end models cost over $200.
Instead, just get a simple model like the Cuisinart ICE-21.
All you have to do is keep the bowl in your freezer, and it will churn out delicious, creamy desserts for you whenever the mood strikesno buckets of ice needed.
Its straightforward to use, and we were totally impressed with its performance during our Best Ice Cream Maker testing.
Get the Cuisinart ICE-21 1.5 Quart Frozen Yogurt-Ice Cream Maker on Amazon for $42 9.
High-end bath towels There are several varieties of cotton, some of which are more luxurious than others, but chances are you probably wont be able to discern much of a difference in your bath towels.
In fact, some high-end towels are actually a bit too thick, which means they take forever to dry and can develop a mildewy smell.
In our testing of the best bath towels, the budget-friendly Fieldcrest Spa Solid Bath Towels from Target were just as welcoming and soaked up just as much water as high-end designer towels.
They have a chic, classic design that can match any bathroom, and they wont break the bank if you buy a whole set.
Get the Fieldcrest Spa Solid Bath Towel from Target for $12.99 10.
Smart security cameras Indoor security cameras are one of the more popular connected devices, as they allow you to see whats going on inside your home, no matter where you are.
Whether you want to be able to monitor your pet while youre at work or just feel more protected during your next vacation, a smart security camera is the perfect solution.
However, some smart security cameras are quite expensive, and while they might perform well, you can get everything you need from a budget pick like the YI Dome Camera.
This little device delivers video in 720p high-definition straight to your phone, and you can even tilt, pan and zoom it remotely, checking out every square in of your house.
Its the ultimate peace of mind, for an affordable price.
Get the YI Dome Camera on Amazon for $33.99 11.
Your Apple TV Once upon a time, the Apple TV might have been the best streaming device out there, but today, there are more affordable options that deliver big in terms of performance.
One of the best options is the Roku Ultra, which is easy to use and offers all the popular streaming sites youre looking for.
It supports both 4K and HDR content, and you can use voice control with the remote.
Plus, one of the best features, in my opinion, is the button on the console that pings the remoteinvaluable for when you lose it in the couch cushions.
Get the Roku Ultra on Amazon for $97.98 12.
A juicer to make your morning celery juice Thank the celery juice trend for giving juicers a popularity boost lately, but don't think you need to buy a super expensive model to get all the benefits of fresh-squeezed produce.
High-end juicers can cost $500 or more, but weve found the best juicer for most people is this mid-priced one from Omega.
Its a horizontal auger masticating juicer, which means it works slowly, producing a high volume of juice that tastes delicious.
And while its not a budget buy, its certainly a lot more affordable than some other top models.
Get the Omega J8006 Nutrition Center Juicer on Amazon for $269.99 13.
That high-end knife set youve been eyeing Kitchen knives are one of those items you can spend any amount of money onyou can go somewhere like HomeGoods and pick up a chefs knife for $10, or you could go to a gourmet cooking store and drop $2,000.
However, as with many things in life, theres a sweet spot between cheap and costs-more-than-your-rent knives.
In particular, were partial to the Zwilling J.A.
Henckels Twin Gourmet Classic 18-Piece Knife Block Set, which we crowned as the best knife set.
It comes with a solid array of knives that are all lightweight, easy to use, and, of course, sharp.
While somewhat expensive, its definitely a much better value than other knife sets that cost twice as much and give you fewer items.
Get the ZWILLING TWIN Gourmet Classic 18-Piece Knife Block Set on Amazon for $279.99 14.
Tools to trim your beard This isnt something I can relate to on a personal level, but apparently beard trimmers can get quite pricey.
You shouldn't have to pay an arm and a leg to keep your facial hair tidy, which is why we love the top-performing Wahl Lithium Ion+ Grooming Kit.
It has an amazing battery life and a professional look and feelplus, it performed better in our testing of the best beard trimmers than several others that were more than double the price.
So there you have it, gents: A way to save money and look your best!
Get the Wahl Lithium Ion+ Stainless Steel Grooming Kit on Amazon for $59.97 15.
Essential oil diffusers Who doesnt want a cloud of lovely, relaxing smells wafting through their home?
Essential oil diffusers are great to this end, and there are several highly rated options that cost less than $20.
In particular, the InnoGear Aromatherapy Essential Oil Diffuser has more than 15,000 reviews and a high average ratingso why wouldnt you opt for this model instead of one that costs $100-plus?
They do the same thing!
Get the InnoGear Aromatherapy Essential Oil Diffuser on Amazon for $14.39 16.
French presses French presses are fairly straightforward contraptions.
Youve got the carafe, lid, plunger and filterand thats about it.
There arent any digital components or intricate mechanisms, yet theres still a significant price difference between certain models.
Weve found the SterlingPro SS Double Wall French Press to be one of the best French press coffee makers out thereit matches the performance of many more expensive products, proving that you dont need to splurge for great coffee.
The liquid stays hot in the carafe, the double filters ensure no ground sneak through, and the end result is a delicious cup of the life-giving liquid you need to start your day.
Get the SterlingPro SS Double Wall Cafetiere on Amazon for $35.95 17. iPhone chargers If you have a phone, youre gonna need a charger, and Apple-branded power cords are quite up there in price.
Instead of dropping $30 on a new charging cablelets face it, we all break them from time to timejust opt for the much more affordable version from AmazonBasics.
Its 6 feet long, so you can reach any outlet, and the cord is wrapped in nylon fabric that makes it stronger and more durable.
Its one of the best lightning cables out there, if we do say so ourselves.
Get the AmazonBasics Nylon Braided Lightning to USB A Cable on Amazon for $12.99 18.
Smart thermostats When most people think of a smart thermostat, Nest is often the first brand that comes to mind since its one of the pioneers in the space.
And while the Nest Learning Thermostat is a great product, it is fairly expensive and as such, might not be accessible to everyone.
If youre looking for a more affordable option that will still perform well, one of our favorite smart thermostats is the Emerson Sensi Touch.
Installing this thermostat is straightforward, and its compatible with Amazon Alexa, Google Home and Apple HomeKit.
And, of course, you can adjust it and create schedules right from your phone.
Get the Emerson Sensi Touch Wi-Fi Thermostat on Amazon for $132.92 19.
Cozy weighted blankets Weighted blankets are all the rage lately, as they provide a much-needed dose of comfort after a long, stressful day.
Because theyre so popular, there are tons of brands to choose from, including both high-end and budget options.
While there may be some manufacturing differences between products on different ends of the price spectrum, most weighted blankets are made similarly.
Just like more expensive products, the Tranquility 12 lb.
Weighted Blanket has a soft exterior and is filled with polyester batting and glass beads.
In our experience, its a great budget pick and will leave you feeling just as cozy as pricey weighted blankets.
Get the Tranquility 12 lb.
Weighted Blanket from Target for $69.99 20.
Automatic pet feeders If you're leaving your cat behind while you take a weekend trip, you want to have peace of mind that she won't go hungry.
Automatic pet feeders are the answer, but they're not all created equal.
While you might think more expensive options would be more reliable, thats not necessarily the case.
When we put automatic pet feeders to the test, we were most impressed by the WOpet Automatic Pet Feeder, which is straightforward, easy to use, and costs less than $20.
In comparison, several more expensive models were too complicated or unreliable.
Its one instance where simplicity is truly the best option.
Get the WOpet Automatic Pet Feeder on Amazon for $17.95 21.
Video monitors to keep an eye on your kids Audio and video monitors are an investment for nearly every parent eager to keep tabs on their kids.
And if youre in the market for the latter, you may be tempted to go all-out with a high-end video monitor that has lots of bells and whistles.
However, weve found that some of the best video monitors are the mid-priced options, like the Panasonic Video Baby Monitor.
It has motion- and sound-activated alerts, clear audio and video output, and even two-way talk capabilities.
Basically, everything you look for in a monitorwithout the $400 price tag.
Get the Panasonic Video Baby Monitor on Amazon for $119.99 22.
A rugged case to protect your phone If you shell out several hundred dollars on a new iPhone, chances are youre going to want to protect your investmentespecially if you have butter fingers, like me.
A tough, rugged phone case will protect your precious iPhone when its dropped, but your best option isnt necessarily one of the expensive, box-like cases you may gravitate toward.
In our roundup of the Best Rugged iPhone Cases, the Spigen Slim Armor provided robust drop protection at an unbeatable price, and we love that its designwhich is thinner than many other optionsdoesnt make your phone feel like a brick.
Get the Spigen Slim Armor on Amazon for $15.99 23.
A spiralizer to help you make zoodles Spiralized zucchini, carrots, squash and more are an incredibly trendy recipe ingredient, but you need a spiralizer to turn your product into cool, swirling strands.
Despite the influx of new spiral vegetable cutters onto the market, one of the best spiralizers is still the good ol Veggetti.
This handheld spiralizer has two thickness options, and its simplicity makes it straightforward to use and clean.
So forget the expensive, confusing spiralizer and just get this one instead.
Get the Veggetti on Amazon for $9.99 24.
Electric kettles Some pricey electric kettles are just not worth the splurge, while some budget-friendly models are an unbeatable value.
In our electric kettle reviews, we found the Hamilton Beach 1.7 Liter Electric Kettle a great affordable option, as it works quickly and has a cute, compact design.
So unless youre really picky about your hot water, we think youd be happier with this model than some other more expensive options that have more settings, but take longer to boil.
Get the Hamilton Beach 1.7 Liter Electric Kettle on Amazon for $29 25.
Next-gen video doorbells The Ring Video Doorbell 2 won the title of Best Smart Doorbell in our testing thanks to its impressive connectivity and clear pictures, even compared to the brands upgraded version, which kind of fell flat.
It just goes to show that youre not always better off buying the latest version of a product.
Sometimes the older (and cheaper) edition is the way to go.
Get the Ring Video Doorbell 2 on Amazon for $199.99 The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest, deals, product reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
25 amazing deals you can still get at Wayfair's massive Black Friday furniture sale CLOSE It's Way Dayonline furniture giant, Wayfair's 2nd annual Black Friday-like sale that lasts for 36 hours.
Check out the 5 best deals here!
Reviewed.com Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA Todays newsroom and any business incentives.
All right, interior design fanatics and furniture shoppers, it's finally here: Way Day 2019.
Right now, you can get up to 80% off nearly 100,000 furniture and home decor products at Wayfair during this second annual sale.
Not to mention there's free shipping on everything and various flash sales for 36 hours beginning April 10 at noon EST.
More: Everything you need to know about Wayfair's massive sale Even better, this massive sale extends to Wayfair's three sister brands: Joss & Main, Birch Lane, and AllModern.
So if you can't find something on Wayfair's site, you can definitely something that fits your style in one of the others.
Between the four sites there is a lot to choose from and it might be a bit overwhelming to find something that's both a good deal and good quality.
But lucky for you we've already sifted through thousands of deals and most popular products on these sites to find the furniture and home decor that are actually worth your money.
Here are 25 items you're going to want to add to your home this Way Day.
1.
A quality, yet inexpensive rug Pictured above are the Ivory and Off-White Multicolor options of this popular rug.
(Photo: Allmodern) With more than 20,000 reviews, this might be the most popular rug at AllModern.
Reviewers love this rug because it's soft and relatively inexpensiveeven more so with this sale.
Plus, it's off-white color will seriously brighten up a space.
It comes in four different colors, including Off-White Multicolor, Beige, and Gray, but Ivory (pictures on the left above) is my definitely my favorite.
Get the Clair Area Rug at AllModern starting at $22.99 (Save up to 71%) 2.
A comfy-looking velvet chair These stunning chairs add drama to a neutral room.
(Photo: Willa Arlo Interiors) I firmly believe every living room needs a velvet chair.
They're plush, soft, and look expensiveeven when it's not.
This one from Wayfair is the perfect addition to any space, and what better excuse to get one than a sale?
Reviewed love this velvet chair because it's easy to put together and it really adds that extra flare to a room.
Get the Bouck Wingback Chair at Wayfair for $156.99 (Save $58) 3.
A beachy table lamp This glass lamp is loaded with coastal flare.
(Photo: Beachcrest Home) The sea glass-like bottom of this lamp from Wayfair would look great in a beach house or any room with a costal vibe.
With six glass colors to choose from, it will add a soft pop of color to a neutral side table or dresser.
Buyers love the look of this lamp and say it's well packaged without any damage.
Get the Barnwell 20" Table Lamp for $32.99 (Save 52% until 12 p.m. EST) 4.
A trendy AllModern floor lamp Who knew a floor lamp could make such a bold statement?
(Photo: Allmodern) Everything about this floor lamp is modern and oh-so-trendy.
The marble base, the sleek metal, and arched shape will add some flare to any room.
Reviewers agree it was easy to assemble and makes for a great reading light.
Get the Arquer 66.93" Arched Floor Lamp at AllModern for $73.99 (Save $40) 5.
A colorful Wayfair area rug If you want a vintage vibe with a modern aesthetic, these colorful Dorset rugs are the perfect fit.
(Photo: Mercury Row) This gorgeous rug from Wayfair will bring some boho flare and a pop of color to any room.
It comes in four spectacular colors and 11 sizes, so it will literally fit any sized space.
Reviewers can attest that the colors aren't too bright and that the design is subtle and won't overwhelm.
Get the Dorset Ivory/Fuchsia Indoor Area Rug starting at $20.99 (Save up to 46% until 12 p.m. EST) 6.
A sophisticated bar cart This minimalist bar cart will take your next dinner party to a new level of sophistication.
(Photo: Joss & Main) Your cocktail party guests will be in awe when they see this bar cart from Joss & Main.
Not only does it have a classic look, but there is a ton of storage for wine classes, wine and liquor bottles, plates, and more.
Reviewers say it was easy to put together and recommend it for any home entertainer.
Get the Kahnah Bar Cart at Josh & Main for $77.99 (Save $182) 7.
A TV stand with a farmhouse vibe This rustic and modern TV stand is as eye-catching as it is functional.
(Photo: Birch Lane) With cross beam-styled doors, this popular TV stand from Birch Lane gives off major farmhouse vibes.
Buyers say it is super easy to put together and is sturdy enough to hold a large TV on it.
The sliding doors add extra functionality, allowing you to easily reach (and hide) video games, movies, and consoles.
Get the Bluestone TV Stand for TVs up to 60" at Birch Lane starting at $177.99 (Save $102) 8.
A dog bed for a pampered pooch These dog beds come in five sizes for every dog to have their own space.
(Photo: Archie & Oscar) It's National Pet Day and we want the best for our petsincluding the comfiest dog bed on the market.
This one from Wayfair looks like it was made for a King (Charles Cavalier Spaniel) with royal colors and a memory foam mattress.
Yes, memory foam.
Not only do owners love the way this bed looks, but dogs love lying in it.
Just make sure you clip their nails to reduce the risk of tearing.
Get the Fiona Dog Bolster at Wayfair starting $22.75 (Save $46.77) 9.
A rustic Wayfair coffee table This rustic coffee table is perfect for a farmhouse-styled home, (Photo: Mistana) This rustic coffee table has the perfect balance of wood and metaland I can already picture one topped with soft accent pieces and flowers in my living room.
Not only did reviewers love the price, but they said it was sturdy and easy to assemble .
Get the Veropeso 42" Wood/Metal Coffee Table at Wayfair for $263.99 (Save $198) 10.
A beachy Joss & Main bed frame Sometimes the simplest design is the most stunning.
(Photo: Joss & Main) With light distressed wood, this bed frame is ideal for a beach house, or that sort of vibe.
It's quite popular at Joss & Main and reviews claim it has a clean look to it, but warn that mattress and box spring combination will make it very tall.
For a more farmhouse feel, go with the Barnwood or Rustic Walnut colors.
Get the Rainer Panel Bed at Joss & Main for $405.91-$419.19 (Save $144.13-$154.33) 11.
A gorgeous Wayfair pendant light How could you not want this gorgeous pendant light?
(Photo: Birch Lane) You'll be wishing for this star-shaped pendant light to be in your home, and it's totally doable with this sale.
Buyers love how unique it isnot to mention how easy it is to install.
It comes in two finishes, but I absolutely adore the Antique Mercury one.
It gives it an antique look that will definitely turn the heads of guests.
Get the Sture 1-Light Geometric Pendant at Wayfair for $65.49-$76.49 (Save 61-63%) 12.
Solid throw pillows to update a couch These velvet pillows come in so many colors you could decorate the whole house.
(Photo: Joss & Main) If you're in the market for some new throw pillows, look no further.
These solid velvet ones from Joss & Main come is 19 different colors, so you're basically guaranteed to find some that matches your style or the couch you want to throw them on.
Reviewers say they're high quality and the removable cover makes them super easy to wash. Get the Bradford Smooth 100% Cotton Velvet Throw Pillow starting at $22.92 (Save up to 60%) 13.
A round mirror to open your space This simple mirror would make a big statement in any room.
(Photo: Langley Street) A mirror can do wonders to open up a space, and this round one from Joss & Main is simple, yet stylish.
Place it above a desk or cabinet for a makeshift vanity or hang it in small hallway to make it feel bigger.
Reviewers love the simple aesthetic of this mirror, but warn its on the heavier side for when you try to hang it.
Get the Minerva Accent Mirror at Joss & Main for $177.99 (Save $168) 12.
A minimalst Wayfair dresser These dressers are understated and will blend well with virtually any decor style.
(Photo: Langley Street) For a dresser that would overwhelm a space while still holding a lot of clothes, this minimalist one from Wayfair is a winner.
It has a ton of reviews that claim the dresser is sturdy and just as sleek as the pictures.
Pair it with a tufted bench or velvet chair for an effortlessly chic bedroom.
Get the Parocela 7 Drawer Dresser at Wayfair for $579.82 (Save $719.18) 15.
A rustic Birch Lane dining table This expanding dining table is perfect if you're the one who hosts all the big family events.
(Photo: Birch Lane) No farmhouse-styled dining room is complete without a rustic dining tablelike this one from Birch Lane.
Its distressed, antique white finish and turned legs give it a classic feel.
People who bought this table absolutely love it, and say it's study but a little heavy so you'll need help flipping it over after attaching the legs.
Get the Artur Extending Dining Table at Birch Lane for $525.93 (Save $194.06) 16.
A modern AllModern bed frame This fabric-covered panel bed comes in 20 different color and fabric options to fit any style.
(Photo: Mercury Row) This paneled bed frame looks like it belongs in a upscale studio apartment or modern-styled bedroom.
Available in 11 different colors you can easily match it to your style and current beddingor get new bedding with the money your saving.
Reviewers love how sturdy the frame is and that it gives a simple update to their bedroom.
Get the Alrai Upholstered Panel Bed at AllModern for $590.39 (Save 345.12) 17.
A plushy accent chair These chairs give off some serious Mad Men vibes in a variety of modern and muted colors.
(Photo: Langley Street) This accent chair from AllModern is just begging to be sat on.
It's plushy and comfortable and comes in 10 different colors (I'm obsessed with Mustard Yellow) that will add a pop to your living space.
Buyers agree that it's easy to assemble and will brighten up otherwise neutral rooms.
Get the Valmy Lounge Chair at AllModern for $225.99 (Save $74) 18.
Classic comb dining chairs Sometimes, a classic wooden dining chair like these is the perfect fit.
(Photo: Joss & Main) Need a refresh to your dining room?
Get new chairsand a sale is the perfect time to save on a new set.
These comb dining chairs from Joss & Main have a classic style and with five color options, they will work with any style.
Reviewers say they're a decent quality for the price and were easy to assemble.
Get the Royal Palm Beach Solid Wood Dining Chair at Joss & Main for $105.99 (Save $54.05) 19.
An AllModern shag area rug Shag rugs aren't just relics of the '70s, and we love the modern aesthetic of this one.
(Photo: Mercury Row) A simple shag rug can really pull a space together.
Reviewers love this one from AllModern because it doesn't shed or have chemical smell after opening.
Plus, the off-white color is ideal for brightening up a space while adding some modern flare.
Get the Colona Shag White Area Rug at AllModern for $39.99-$383.99 (Save $35.01-$246.01) 20.
A silly gnome you'll want in your garden This cheeky little garden gnome will let your neighbors know you're totally normal.
(Photo: Design Toscano) Sales are the perfect excuse to buy a cheap little knick knack.
This garden gnome is hilarious and will add comedic touch next to your petunias.
Gardeners love using this little guy to trick and shock both neighbors and visiting relatives.
Get the Loonie Moonie Bare Buttocks Garden Gnome Statue for $18.83 (Save $7) 21.
A spunky chandelier from AllModern This chandelier will invite all the compliments and envy.
(Photo: Langley Street) Appropriately named after the Sputnik 1, this 12-bulb chandelier will add some futuristic vibes to your dining or living room.
It reminds me of the Jetsonsin the best way possible.
Reviewers say it's a little larger than they anticipated, but that it still makes their space feel out of this world.
Get the Benites 12-Light Sputnik Chandelier at AllModern for $263.97-$276.29 (Save $92.71-$105.03) 22.
A simple nightstand with a ton of storage This basic nightstand would fit well in a spare room.
(Photo: Ovellette) A good nightstand not only looks clean, but also has a ton of storage to fit various books and knick knacks.
With 10 different color options and three drawers, this nightstand from Birch Lane would look great in any tween or guest bedroom.
Reviewers say it's small and not the best quality, but it's at an incredibly low price for a spare room or as a cheap replacement.
Get the Ovellette 3 Drawer Nightstand at Birch Lane for $87.99-$97.99 (Save $32.01-$42.01) 23.
A tufted Joss & Main ottoman The classiest footrest you'll ever own.
(Photo: Rittenhouse) With button tufting and a nailhead trim, this ottoman is giving me major West Elm vibesat a fraction of the cost.
It's an elegant piece for spare seating, a makeshift coffee table, or footrest, which is why reviewers love it.
Right now, you can get it in three colors to match your living room.
Get the Rittenhouse Tufted Cocktail Ottoman at Joss & Main for $149.36 (Save $303.63) 24.
An AllModern wool and cotton rug This simple boho rug really completes a space.
(Photo: Mercury Row) I'm obsessed the diamond motif of this rug.
It's mid-century chic, and will add some extra flare to an otherwise simple room.
Reviewers love it too, but suggest getting a rug pad to prevent slipping and sliding.
Get the Marcelo Hand-Tufted Wool/Cotton Ivory Area Rug starting at $56.99 (Save up to 37%) 25.
A schoolhouse pendant light This lamp is 'Fixer Upper' approved.
(Photo: Birch Lane) The seeded glass and bronze finish of this pendant light would look incredible above a kitchen island or dining table.
It would look good solo or in a cluster, and you can choose several finishes to match your style.
Reviewers say it's easy to install and love the Fixer Upper vibe it brings to their kitchen.
Get the Goffredo 1-Light Schoolhouse Pendant at Birch Lane for $108.35 (Save $146.64) The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest deals, reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/04/10/way-day-2019-21-best-deals-wayfairs-black-friday-furniture-sale-event-right-now/3413395002/
Way Day 2019 is hereheres everything you need to know about Wayfair's massive sale Way Day 2019 is coming April 10 at noon EST/9 a.m. PT.
(Photo: Wayfair) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA Todays newsroom and any business incentives.
Way Day, now in its second year, is shaping up to be Wayfair's answer to Amazon Prime Day and Black Friday.
The massive 36-hour furniture and home decor sale is already underway and there are loads of amazing sales you can shop right now.
Ever since Wayfair hosted their inaugural Way Day event last year, deal hunters and shopping lovers alike have been eagerly counting down the days until they could scoop up savings just as big on a variety of big-ticket items, including home decor pieces, outdoor patio sets, bedroom furniture, and so much more.
But if you've never shopped at Wayfair before, chances are you're drawing a total blank right now.
The retailer is well-known for its affordable and trendy furniture and home decor, giving places like Ikea a run for their money.
Fortunately, there's never been a better time to spruce up your home and take advantage of Wayfair's terrific inventory of stylish home products thanks to this brand new shopping holiday.
More: 17 amazing deals from Home Depot's Spring Black Friday event happening now Here's everything you need to know about the new retail holiday everyone's talking about.
When is Way Day?
Back by popular demand, Way Day returns on Wednesday, April 10, starting online at noon EST/9 a.m. PT and lasting for 36 hours in total.
Way Day will feature Wayfair's lowest prices since Black Friday last November, with sales on more than 100,000 products, including discounts on items from popular brands like AllModern, Joss & Main, and Birch Lane.
In addition, Wayfair will run flash deals throughout the event and offer free shipping for all purchases made during that 36-hour window.
What's new this year?
For shoppers who loved everything about Way Day 2018, get ready.
This time around, Wayfair is switching things up a little with a few fun features that promise to make this sales event even better than before.
For the first time, Wayfair is introducing "Wayfair On Air."
This livestream will offer on-site videos of product reviews while you're shopping, so you can see what other shoppers really have to say before you buy something.
Another new feature this year is "Share and Save"Wayfair's savings program that gives shoppers the chance to unlock an extra 40% off on select products at checkout simply by sharing deals on social media.They get free advertising, you get extra savings.
It's a win-win.
What's going to be on sale?
We didn't know any details leading up to the sale, but now that Way Day 2019 is officially underway, we know that you can get up to 80% off select items, including rugs, mattresses, outdoor and living room furniture, and more.
You can also get decor starting at $9.99 and accent furniture at $59.99 and up.
With so many terrific products to choose from, it can be hard to figure out where to start.
We've rounded up all the best deals and discounts happening right now so you can get started.
You can also check out five of our favorite sales in this video, or head over to Wayfair directly to see all the fantastic products that are on sale right now.
The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest deals, reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/04/08/wayfair-way-day-2019-everything-you-need-know-massive-furniture-sale/3401597002/
The 19 best Amazon deals you can get right now Thursday's Amazon deals can help you save big before the weekend.
(Photo: Reviewed) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA Todays newsroom and any business incentives.
Everyone knows that if you want to save money on cool products, Amazon is the place to go.
But the tricky thing about shopping on Amazon is that there's literally so much to choose from, it can be hard to separate the junk from the stuff that's really worth buying.
More: Wayfair's Way Day 2019 blowout sale is herethese are the 25 best deals Seasoned deal hunters know that Amazon's Gold Box Deals is the best place to start if you're looking to find discounts on popular items.
But here at Reviewed, we know that there's more to getting a good bargain than just saving a few extra dollars.
We don't just look for what's on sale.
Our team of experts spends the whole year testing hundreds of products, and we use price tracking tools to find sales on products that really are the best of the best.
Today, we've found deals you absolutely don't want to miss on everything from dog toys to headphones, plus so much more.
Under $15 This charger from Anker offers a smarter way to keep your devices running.
(Photo: Anker) 1.
Our favorite: Anker Roav SmartCharge Halo Traveling is stressful enough as it is without having to worry about whether or not your devices are fully charged up along the way.
That's what's so good about the Anker Roav SmartCharge Haloit comes with three USB ports, so not only can you keep your smartphone charged up while you drive, but you can also ensure that your passengers have a way to keep their battery power up as well.
If you sync this up with the Roav Charger app, you can also track your car's location at all times.
Best of all, this charger can be customized to light up and match your car's interior, which makes it one of the coolest chargers we've ever seen.
Right now you can save $6 using the code "ROAVF3WA," making this one of the big must-have deals of the day.
Get the Anker Roav SmartCharge Halo for $13.99 (Save $6) with code "ROAVF3WA" More deals under $15 2.
LilyAna Naturals Retinol Cream Moisturizer$14.99 on Amazon (Save $5): Use the on-page coupon to save on this cult-favorite moisturizer.
3.
Anker 6-foot USB-C Charging Cable 2-Pack$9.99 (Save $3): This two pack of cables is a must for any devices that charge via USB-C. 4.
Anker 2-Port USB Wall Charger 2-Pack$12.79 (Save $3.20) with the code "ANKERTP2" Under $25 These best-selling toys from BarkBox offer more than meets the eye.
(Photo: BarkBox) 5.
Our favorite: Barkbox Plush Toy Bundle Today is National Pet Day, and while most pet parents don't need an excuse to pamper their favorite furry pals since they do it all the time anyhow, this holiday is the perfect occasion to take it to the next level.
For today only, you can get 20% off BarkBoxs Best of Box Plush Toys Bundle, which comes with toys designed to make the most out of your dog's playtime.
But these aren't just any toyswhen your dog tears into them, another toy is revealed, meaning the fun just keeps going and going.
Get the BarkBox Best of Box Plush Toy Bundle for Dogs for $24.99 (Save $11) More deals under $25 6.
VTech DM221 Audio Baby Monitor$25 (Save $11.13): This audio-only baby monitor is the best audio baby monitor we've ever tested, and you can get it now at its lowest price.
7.
Amrapur Overseas Goose Down Alternative Microfiber Comforters$17.59-$29.23 (Save $4-$15): Get these down alternative blankets for up to 40% off today only as part of Amazon's Deal of the Day promotion.
Under $60 This wireless router offers faster performance for your devices at a farther range.
(Photo: Amazon) 8.
Our favorite: TP-Link AC1750 Smart WiFi Router For the average shopper, wireless routers are one of those things you really only think about until you start to notice problems in connecting and staying on the Internet.
But the truth is, not only wireless routers are the same.
Right now, you can save just under $10 on this TP-Link AC1750 Smart Wifi Router.
While it's slightly different from the Archer 7 that we tested and liked for its affordability and easy-to-set access point mode, this wireless router is a solid budget pick that can help to expand the wireless range in your home.
Get the TP-Link AC1750 Smart WiFi Router$56.99 (Save $8) More deals under $60 9.
Anker PowerCore 15000 Redux 15000mAh 2-Port Ultra-Portable Charger$33.99 (Save $7): This portable power bank offers high-speed charging and is compatible with most Apple and Samsung devices.
10.
Honeywell Lyric Smart Water Leak Detector$49.99 (Save $10): This is the best smart water leak detector we've ever tested back down to the lowest price we've ever seen.
11.
LectroFan High Fidelity White Noise Sound Machine$34.28 (Save $15.67): Save an extra $2.50 on one of our favorite sound machines by clipping the coupon below the price.
12.
LEVOIT Cool Mist 4.5L Ultrasonic Humidifier$46.99 (Save $13): This highly rated humidifer comes with adjustable mist levels, a built-in LED display, and is now at its lowest price ever with an on-page coupon.
Under $150 Great sound at a great price.
(Photo: Audio-Technica) 13.
Our favorite deal: Audio-Technica ATH-M50x Headphones Pro adulting tip: Never leave the house without a good set of headphones.
This set from Audio-Technica used to be our favorite headphones (they were edged out of that spot by an upgraded model of this same pair), but they're still an awesome investment, especially since you get them now for $20 less than they normally run for.
These headphones offer studio-grade sound, plus they're easy to travel with, comfortable, and extremely durable.
Get the Audio-Technica ATH-M50x Headphones for $129 (Save $20) More deals under $150 14.
T-fal C561SC Nonstick 12-Piece Cookware Set$71.66 (Save $9.33): The best nonstick cookware set we've ever tested is back on sale, and while it's not the lowest price we've ever seen, it's a great option if you're shopping for a cookware set for all your kitchen needs.
15.
Fire 7 Kids Edition Tablet$69.99 (Save $30): The best tablet for kids we've ever tested is back down to its lowest price and is perfect for long road trips.
16.
Instant Pot DUO Plus 9-in-1 Pressure Cooker$99.99 (Save $30): This model offers even more functionality than the Duo, and works as a pressure cooker, slow cooker, cake maker, maker, egg cooker, and more.
17.
Tuft & Needle Premium Pillow$80 (Save $20): Get a decent discount on the pillow by the best mattress in a box we've ever tested.
Over $200 Get a better night's rest on this mattress from Tuft & Needle.
(Photo: Tuft & Needle) 18.
Our favorite deal: Tuft & Needle Mattress in a Box A great mattress doesn't have to cost a fortune.
Tuft & Needle makes the best mattress in a box we've ever tested, combining comfort and affordability in one very awesome package.
Right now, you can get these mattresses for one of the lowest prices we've ever seen, saving anywhere from $70-$150 off, depending on which size you opt to get.
This is the kind of sale that sweet dreams are made out of, but it runs out tomorrow, so you should definitely grab it while you still can.
Get the Tuft & Needle Mattress in a Box for $280-$600 (Save $70-$150) More deals over $200 19.
Tuft & Needle Nod Mattress$236-$396 (Save $59-$99): This innovative foam mattress comes with a 100-night trial and a great blend of softness and support.
Other great deals you can get online right now Bloomingdale's Get up to 25% off clothing, kitchen, and more during the massive Friends & Family sale Get up to 25% off clothing, kitchen, and more during the massive Friends & Family sale Game Stop Find savings on games, consoles, accessories, apparel, toys, and more during their two-week Spring Sale.
Find savings on games, consoles, accessories, apparel, toys, and more during their two-week Spring Sale.
Home Depot Get Spring Black Friday deals until April 14, including up to 25% off furniture, up to 30% off bedding and bath, up to 40% off wall dcor, up to 40% off wallpaper, up to 30% off home accents, and more.
Get Spring Black Friday deals until April 14, including up to 25% off furniture, up to 30% off bedding and bath, up to 40% off wall dcor, up to 40% off wallpaper, up to 30% off home accents, and more.
Lowe's Like Home Depot, Lowe's is running its own Spring Black Friday sale, featuring savings on outdoor entertaining essentials, gardening supplies, appliances big and small, and more.
Like Home Depot, Lowe's is running its own Spring Black Friday sale, featuring savings on outdoor entertaining essentials, gardening supplies, appliances big and small, and more.
Puro Sound Labs BT 2200 Kids' Headphoness The best kids' headphones are on sale for $50 right now, the lowest price we've ever seen by $20.
The best kids' headphones are on sale for $50 right now, the lowest price we've ever seen by $20.
Sur La Table Save up to 60% on cookware like Le Creuset, All-Clad, and Staub.
Save up to 60% on cookware like Le Creuset, All-Clad, and Staub.
Walmart Get up to 50% off select home and kitchen products for the next 48 hours during Walmart's spring sale Get up to 50% off select home and kitchen products for the next 48 hours during Walmart's spring sale WayfairWay Day begins at 12 p.m. EST and will offer up to 80% off thousands of products for 36 hours.
The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest deals, reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/04/11/best-amazon-deals-you-can-get-thursday/3433194002/
As pet parents, we want the best for our dogs.
The best food, the most comfortable collars, and toys that theyll want to tear to shreds.
Theres honestly nothing more disappointing than buying a stuffed squirrel for your furry friend, only to have them turn their nose up at it and return to chewing on your slippers.
To solve the challenge of finding something our pooches will get riled up over, we set out to find the best toys you can buy at Petco that will last a while and keep your dogs interest piquedand theyre all under $12, which makes them even better.
By shuffling through reviews and relying on our own experience, we rounded up 10 toys that should perk up the ears of every kind of breed.
To take things a step further, we invited a pack of rescue dogs from Last Hope K9 to come in and play with these top-rated dog toys from Petco as well as try some of our favorite pet products like automatic feeders, leashes, and pet carriers.
Lets just say, we enjoyed watching these dogs play as much and they enjoyed testing these toys, but beyond all the cuteness, we learned a lot about what these dogs did and didnt like about these toys.
Here are the 10 most popular toys you can find at Petco that were tested and approved by puppies and seniors dog, Mac and Johnson.
1.
A durable toy that will last for years Credit: Reviewed / Melissa Rorech Axl have the best time gnawing and squeaking this toy.
Reviews: 321 Average rating: 3.9 stars No matter how strong your dog's jaws are or how sharp their teeth are, this wubba is basically indestructible.
This toy is basically a tennis ball and a squeaker ball (because what dog doesnt love squeaky toys?)
covered in reinforced nylon fabric.
This fabric is tough to tear through, which means it will last for a while.
Its perfect for both tugging and tossing activities, and Axl (pictured above) really loved crunching down his puppy teeth on the Kong Wubba Dog Toy.
We noted that it was super easy for him to make it squeak and great for countless games of fetch.
Get the Kong Small Wubba Dog Toy for $7.99 2.
A fox that wont leave fluff behind Credit: Reviewed / Melissa No stuffing?
No problem!
Reviews: 57 Average rating: 4.7 stars One of the downsides of bringing a new toy home for your mutt is finding little fluffs of stuffing scattered throughout the house for weeks to come.
But this fox from Leaps & Bounds solves that problem.
It comes without any stuffing at all, which means your hound can tug, tear, and shake but no stuffing mess will appear.
We were able to steal this toy back from mischievous dogs like Peter without tearing it, which is an attest to its durability and fun factor.
Get the Leaps & Bounds Unstuffed Fox Dog Toy for $9.99 3.
The classic rubber Kong toy for puppies Credit: Kong Puppies will love teething on this soft rubber.
Reviews: 360 Average rating: 4.7 stars Theres a reason you always see those red, rubber Kong toys in every dog-friendly home.
Theyre super durable, affordable, and pooches just love gnawing at them.
This one, in particular, is made with a softer rubber, so its safer for growing puppy teeth.
It also has a hole you can fill with treats like peanut butter or doggy ice cream to keep dogs entertained for hours.
The quiet Yorkie pictured above, Coco, loved chomping on the classic Kong toy.
Once we filled it with some peanut butter, she settled down in a nice little corner and went to town.
Get the Puppy Kong Dog Toy, Small for $6.49 4.
A lightweight flying disc you can use indoors Credit: Chuckit!
An easier frisbee to catch.
Reviews: 65 Average rating: 4.5 stars For smaller dogs and puppies, a hard frisbee can be tough on their little mouthsand not to mention a challenge to catch.
Thats why we (and our furry friends) love this lightweight flying toy by Chuckit!
Its easy to throw and catch, so you and your four-legged friend can spend hours playing fetch in the park.
It also floats on water, which is perfect for every trip to the lake, pool, or beach trip.
All the dogs from Last Hope loved this toy, especially Lucy, Axl, and Charro, who definitely had the most energy out of the pack.
No one was quite talented enough to catch it mid-air, but once it hit the ground, they'd all boop it with their noses until they could get a good grip on it and bring it back for us to toss again.
Get the Chuckit!
Paraflight Dog Toy for $11.93 5.
A long toy for dogs of all sizes Credit: Reviewed / Melissa Rorech Axl and Charro had a great game of tug-of-war with this loofa.
Reviews: 209 Average rating: 4.1 stars This soft, squeaky toy is perfect for both large and small dogs alike.
From both reviews and our personal experience, we learned that this toy is hard to rip apart and dogs absolutely love the squeaker.
Seriously, we had a small pack of dogs chasing after this thing and trying to hide it from the other tail-waggers.
Charro and Axl liked the Loofa Terry Dog Toy the most because it was great for tug of war.
Mac also hopped up on the table and grabbed it as his first choice within five minutes of arriving, because it was long and better suited for big dogs like him.
Get the Petco Original Loofa Terry Dog Toy for $3.39 6.
A lamb that will last longer than a day Credit: Reviewed / Melissa Rorech Peter and Lamb Chop were a match made in heaven.
Reviews: 209 Average rating: 4.4 stars This plush Lamb Chop wont be tossed to the side in your house.
Seriously, dogs love squeaking, chasing, and chomping on this little lamb.
Peter especially loved Lamb Chop because it looked a lot like him, soft and fluffy too.
Although its not meant for aggressive chewers, one of our editors has this toy for her small dogs and confirmed its durability.
Get the Multipet Lamb Chop Dog Toy for $3.99 7.
The easiest way to play fetch Credit: Reviewed / Melissa Rorech This toy apparently doubles as a ball launcher and chew toy.
Reviews: 172 Average rating: 4.8 stars Whether you suck at throwing or are just plain lazy, this ball launcher will make playing fetch 10 times easier.
It comes in different sizes and makes playing with your best friend super easy.
We used a medium-sized one for light tosses around the office near the end of our long, rambunctious day and somehow managed not to break anything.
Axl and Peter fought over the Mini Ball Launchernot the ball it launched, but the stick itself.
That part is not supposed to be a toy, but, hey, whatever works.
Get the Chuckit!
Mini Ball Launcher, 14" for $7.95 8.
Chew bones for every type of dog Credit: Reviewed / Melissa Rorech Lucy loved the taste of the bacon flavored Nylabone.
Reviews: 78 Average rating: 4.5 stars When we found out dogs were coming to the office, we wanted to make sure they had plenty of things to chew to their hearts desire.
This variety pack of chew bones was ideal because it came with Dental Chew, Healthy Edibles Bacon Flavored Bone, and a Flexible Pooch Pacifier.
Not only are they all great for keeping your pets teeth healthy and strong, but the rescue dogs loved picking through to find their favorites.
Lucy, shyer than the other puppies, grabbed the bacon-flavored Nylabone right away and found a quiet place to gnaw away at it in peace.
Get the Nylabone Small Dog Value Pack for $5.19 9.
A pack of squeaky tennis balls Credit: Reviewed / Melissa Rorech Dogs will love catching and squeaking this tennis ball.
Reviews: 241 Average rating: 4.7 stars You didnt think wed get through this list without including any tennis balls, did you?
This three-pack from Kong is particularly popular because theyre super squeaky.
They're also durable and easy to throw, and the squeaker really got the pups excited about playing and even brought a few out of their shell.
Johnson the Chiweenie who was constantly trying to escape the room, enjoyed playing with the mini tennis balls when he finally realized he wasnt going anywhere.
He was the smallest one of our four-legged guests and we think he enjoyed having a toy that was pint-sized, just like him.
These tennis balls come in a variety of sizes, so you can order one for a large pooch, too.
Get the Kong SqueakAir Tennis Balls Pack of 3, Small for $2.09 10.
A cute teddy bear youll want to snuggle with Credit: Kong / Reviewed / Melissa Rorech Dogs of all sizes will tire out after playing with this teddy bear.
Reviews: 200 Average rating: 4.0 stars Every dog needs a cute teddy bear to snuggle up withor tear its head off.
Thankfully, this guys head is securely in place and super durable.
Its also made without stuffing, so you wont have to deal with a mess even if it is torn up.
Despite its tiny size, this toy was a hit even with the larger dogs, who managed to play without tearing it apart.
We could tell that Marsala loved the Mini Kong Bear the most because she got sleepy after playing a while and got to snuggle up next to it (pictured above).
Get the Kong Teddy Bear Dog Toy, X-Small for $2.09 Bonus: A stick without all the bugs and wood Credit: Petstages Your pooch will spend months chewing on this "stick."
Reviews: 171 Average rating: 4.4 stars It breaks your heart a little every time you have to tell Fido he cant bring his stick inside.
But with this one from Petstages, he can have the same fun in the living room as in the park.
Plus, unlike real wood, this stick is not made of wood, but rather a non-toxic material that is safe to chew on and swallow.
The dogs from Last Hope K9 werent too interested in this stick compared to the other fluffy and squeaky toys, but my familys dogs love chewing on these sticks.
Theyre super durable and it will take most dogs months before they gnaw through one entirely.
Fair warning: These toys are painful when stepped on with human feet, so watch where you're walking.
Get the Petstages Durable Stick, Medium for $4.79 The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest, deals, product reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
None 7.
Samsung 2019 reputation quotient: 80.0 2018 reputation quotient: 77.6 Industry: Consumer electronics CEO: Kim Hyun Suk, Koh Dong Jin, Kim Ki Nam South Korean consumer electronics company Samsung is the highest ranking foreign company on this list.
The company gains its rarefied reputation largely through innovation.
Samsung introduced the Galaxy smartphone 10 years ago, and it continues to improve on the product.
Consumer electronics reviewers cite the latest generation of the Galaxy smartphone for its improved camera and video functionality.
Samsung has been slugging it out with Apple for smartphone supremacy, and holds an edge over its rival in global market share.
Samsung has also been at the forefront of wearable technology.
Samsung is also ranked as the sixth best global brand by Interbrand, and ranks fifth among the 50 most innovative companies in 2018 by Boston Consulting Group.
ALSO READ: 30 Richest Americans of All Time Ethan Miller / Getty Images
CLOSE A long-lost, tiny species of early human has been discovered in a cave in the Philippines.
Buzz60 A tiny, long-lost cousin of our own human species has been discovered, scientists announced Wednesday.
Several foot and hand bones, a partial leg bone and teeth of the long-extinct, previously undiscovered creature were found in Callao Cave in the Philippines.
This is a truly sensational finding, Adam Brumm, an archaeologist at Griffith University in Nathan, Australia, told Science magazine.
The paper sent shivers down my spine, he said.
These fossils "provide sufficient evidence of a new species" that lived on the island of Luzon about 50,000 to 67,000 years ago, according to a new study.
That's roughly the same time that some of our ancestors began to leave Africa.
As a shout-out to where it was discovered, the authors named the new species Homo luzonensis.
The study lead authors were paleoanthropologist Florent Dtroit of the National Museum of Natural History in Paris and archaeologist Armand Salvador Mijares of the University of the Philippines.
The fossils of Homo luzonensis were discovered in Callao Cave in the Philippines.
This view is taken from the rear of the first chamber of the cave, where the fossils were found, in the direction of the second chamber.
(Photo: AP) The creatures may have been only about 3 feet tall, which is roughly the size of the fictional hobbits in J.R.R.
Tolkien's books.
We can only speculate but it might be only in the range of a pygmy Homo sapiens, Mijares told Reuters.
The species is an extinct offshoot of our own species but is not a direct ancestor.
The right upper teeth of one of the newly discovered species Homo luzonensis.
From left are two premolars and 3 molars.
In a study released April 10, 2019, scientists report that tests on two samples from the species show minimum ages of 50,000 years and 67,000 years.
(Photo: AP) "Most extinct hominin species are not our direct ancestors, but instead are close relatives with evolutionary histories that took a slightly different path from ours," according to the study.
("Hominins" is a term for any species of early humans that are more closely related to humans than chimpanzees, including modern humans.)
The species lived in eastern Asia around the same time as our species and other members of the Homo branch, including Neanderthals, their little-understood Siberian cousins the Denisovans, and the diminutive hobbits of the island of Flores in Indonesia.
The "remarkable discovery ... will no doubt ignite plenty of scientific debate over the coming weeks, months and years," said anthropologist Matthew Tocheri of Lakehead University in Ontario.
Michael Petraglia of the Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History in Jena, Germany, said the Luzon find shows we still know very little about human evolution, particularly in Asia.
The discovery was announced in a paper in this weeks Nature, a peer-reviewed British journal.
Contributing: The Associated Press Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2019/04/10/new-human-species-discovered-cave-philippines/3424227002/
CLOSE Rep. Devin Nunes' legal team claims Twitter is complicit in defamation by "knowingly hosting and monetizing" abusive content on its service.
USA TODAY SAN FRANCISCO Republican lawmakers led by Texas Sen. Ted Cruz threatened social media companies Wednesday with regulation, echoing repeated charges from President Donald Trumpand other top GOP officials that Facebook, Google and Twitter target the political speech of right-leaning users to limit their online reach.
At issue is the opaque process with which these companies make decisions on what's allowed and not allowed on their platforms.
"What makes the threat of political censorship so problematic is the lack of transparency, the invisibility, the ability for a handful of giant tech companies to decide if a particular speaker is disfavored," Cruz said in his opening remarks during Wednesday's contentious Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on "Stifling Free Speech: Technological Censorship and the Public Discourse."
Cruz said he'd consider charging "big tech" with antitrust violations or fraud or could remove the protection from liability provided by a decades-old federal law.
Conservatives have offered no evidence of systematic efforts to suppress political speech.
The Silicon Valley tech companies say they strike a balance between users' rights to freely express themselves and keeping hate, abuse and misinformation off their platforms.
They deny censorship of conservative voices but acknowledge they've made missteps in moderating content.
They also concede that their staffers tend to be liberal.
Democrats have dismissed allegations of anti-conservative bias as a "right-wing conspiracy theory.
"Liberal media watchdog group Media Matters for America released a study this week that it says shows that right-leaning pages have roughly the same amount of engagement as left-leaning pages on Facebook.
Sen. Mazie Hirono, a Democrat from Hawaii, said Wednesday that Congress should increase oversight of the major tech companies over the rise of hate speech and disinformation but not over allegations of anti-conservative bias, "which have been disproven time and time again."
"For decades, Republicans have bashed the supposedly liberal mainstream media in an effort to work the refs," the panels top Democrat said.
"Now that two-thirds of Americans get their news from social media, Republicans have a new boogeyman to target: big tech."
Last month, Trump accused all three companies of liberal bias in how they police their online platforms, saying they harbor hatred "for a certain group of people that happen to be in power, that happen to have won the election" and threatened regulation in response.
"Something is happening with those groups of folks that are running Facebook and Google and Twitter, and I do think we have to get to the bottom of it," Trump said.
"It's collusive, and it's very, very fair to say we have to do something about it."
Allegations of anti-conservative bias has become a rallying cry in recent years for conservative figures such as Diamond and Silk and has been raised in multiple sessions on Capitol Hill.
Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, speaks during a Senate Transportation subcommittee hearing on commercial airline safety, on Capitol Hill in Washington, March 27, 2019.
(Photo: Andrew Harnik, AP) White House ally Rep. Devin Nunes, a Republican from California, recently filed a lawsuit against Twitter and some of its users for defamation seeking $250 million in damages.
Facebook took fire last month for temporarily blocking the account of Dan Scavino, the White House social media director, after mistaking it for an automated account.
"Its time for tech companies like Google and Facebook to start embracing the spirit of the First Amendment.
Not just for their own employees, but for all of the Americans who use their platforms," Republican Sen. Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee said during Wednesday's hearing.
Neil Potts, public policy director at Facebook, told lawmakers that the company had spoken with dozens of members of Congress and conservative groups to assess whether it's "unintentionally biased" against conservative viewpoints in an inquiry into allegations of bias led by former Sen. Jon Kyl of Nebraska and a team at the Washington-based law firm Covington & Burling.
"Sen. Kyl and his team are now reviewing our external and internal policies.
While conducting this review, Sen. Kyl and his team have also been engaged in reviewing and providing insights into future policy changes under consideration," Potts said at Wednesday's hearing.
"After Sen. Kyl has reviewed our policies and internal guidelines, he and his team will share feedback and suggestions for improvements."
Facebook has been a punching bag for conservatives for years.
In 2016, reports that its moderators suppressed conservative voices prompted an inquiry by the Senate Commerce Committee.
Facebook said its internal investigation found no evidence of bias but held a meeting with big names from conservative political and media circles.
Last May, Facebook's Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg appeared on Capitol Hill to answer to the Cambridge Analyticascandal in which the data of 87 million Facebook users was misappropriated.
Conservatives capitalized on the opportunity to accuse Facebook of left-wing favoritism.
"There are a great many Americans who I think are deeply concerned that Facebook and other tech companies are engaged in a pervasive pattern of bias and political censorship," Cruz said.
Zuckerberg denied Facebooks policies are a product of its liberal cocoon in Silicon Valley but conceded that Facebook doesnt always make the right call when removing conservative content.
"With the amount of content in our systems and the current systems we have in place to review, we have a small amount of mistakes, but thats too many, he said at the time.
"I get how people can look at that and build that (censorship) conclusion."
Testifying for Twitter, Carlos Monje, the company's director of public policy and philanthropy, described Twitter as an "impartial" platform.
"Twitter does not use political viewpoints, perspectives or party affiliation to make any decisions, whether related to automatically ranking content on our service or how we develop or enforce our rules," he told lawmakers Wednesday.
Monje said Twitter had its data scientists analyze tweets sent by all members of the House and Senate who have Twitter accounts for a five-week period.
Democratic members sent 8,665 tweets and Republican members sent 4,757.
Democrats on average have more followers per account and have more active followers.
As a result, Democratic members in the aggregate receive more impressions or views than Republicans, Twitter said.
But, after controlling for various factors, Twitter said there is no statistically significant difference between the number of times a tweet by a Democrat is viewed and a tweet by a Republican.
The social media company has had its share of scrapes with conservatives.
Blackburn was barred from promoting a campaign video on Twitter because of a reference she made to Planned Parenthood.
In the video, Blackburn accused the organization of selling "baby body parts."
Twitter said it prevented Blackburn from running the video as an ad because it was too inflammatory but later reversed that decision.
Monje repeatedly apologized to Blackburn on Wednesday.
"Following an appeal from Sen. Blackburns media firm, we reviewed the initial decision," he said.
"We relied upon additional context that there were no graphic images portrayed and that the concerning language was a very small portion of the overall advertisement.
We then reversed the decision and apologized."
Missing at the hearing was Google, which was represented by an empty chair.
The Republican-controlled committee rejected the witness the search giant offered because he did not have "comparable seniority" to the other witnesses, Cruz said.
He pledged to hold a separate hearing on political bias with Google.
Google has repeatedly denied any partisanship in search results.
In December, Google's Chief Executive Sundar Pichai testified that Google operates "without political bias."
He was hammered by Republican lawmakers who accused the search engine of manipulating results to show conservatives in a negative light or muzzle the viewpoints of right-leaning voices.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/2019/04/10/ted-cruz-threatens-regulate-facebook-twitter-over-alleged-bias/3423095002/
The best new headphones for kids are on salefor now These noise-cancelling headphones are a great option for kids.
(Photo: Amazon / Puro Sound Labs) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA Todays newsroom and any business incentives.
Kids nowadays are using smartphones and tablets for virtually everything.
From doing homework to watching videos on YouTube, they're tapping into technology in ways that no other generation has before.
The one catch though?
All that stimuli can be dangerous if kids aren't careful, especially when it comes to audio.
More: Wayfair's Way Day 2019 blowout sale is herethese are the 25 best deals As a parent, keeping your child's developing mind (and ears) safe is crucial.
That's why volume-limiting headphones for kids can be such a good investment.
And right now, you can get an amazing discount on our favorite new set of headphones just released by Puro Sound Labsmakers of our former top pick, the Puro BT2200and designed with kids in mind.
Similar to the BT2200s, the PuroQuiet headphones are wireless, Bluetooth-enabled, and can help protect your child's hearing by limiting volume.
But the PuroQuiet headphones have one important distinction that puts them in a class all their own.
These ultra-durable headphones cancel out ambient noise, meaning kids (especially those with sensory issues) can hear more clearly and it's easier for them to focus.
After testing them, we think they're the best headphones for kids out nowthe one downside is that they're usually fairly expensive and cost about $199.
But today, you can get them for their lowest price yet for just under $100.
So if you've been meaning to grab your kid a new set of headphones they can use whether they're at home or at school, this is one deal you absolutely don't want to miss.
The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest deals, reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/04/10/best-new-headphones-kids-finally-sale/3424640002/
CLOSE Man's best friend may have just become his doctor.
Buzz60's Tony Spitz has the details.
Buzz60 Here's another reason to love dogs.
Using their super-sensitive noses in a scientific experiment, dogs were able to sniff out lung cancer in samples of human blood with 97% accuracy, new preliminary research reports.
Specifically, three of four beagles correctly identified samples of blood with lung cancer 96.7% of the time and normal samples 97.5% of the time.
For whatever reason, the fourth dog was "unmotivated to perform," researchers said.
All four dogs were two years old.
Dogs can do this because the smell receptors in their noses are as much as 10,000 times more accurate than humans.
The study was performed by Heather Junqueira, a researcher at BioScentDx, a Florida-based pharmaceutical lab.
The nose knows: Beagles were able to sniff out cancer in human blood with 97% accuracy, new research said.
(Photo: SVPhilon, Getty Images/iStockphoto) The research has not been published in a peer-reviewed science journal.
Monday, Junqueira presented her findings at the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology annual meeting in Orlando.
The results could lead to new, non-invasive cancer-screening approaches, the firm claimed.
"Although there is currently no cure for cancer, early detection offers the best hope of survival," Junqueira said.
She said the research helps paves the way for further research into how dogs' noses could be used as a screening method for cancers.
"A highly sensitive test for detecting cancer could potentially save thousands of lives and change the way the disease is treated," she said.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2019/04/10/dogs-noses-help-sniff-out-lung-cancer-blood-samples-study-says/3415727002/
'Fortnite' adds reboot vans to let you revive fallen teammates CLOSE How Fortnite is making it's money.
More than a year after its release, the world is still talking about Fortnite and for good reason.
The battle royal video game played by more than 200 million people is free, but its generating a ton of money Time The latest new twist in "Fortnite" lets you bring a teammate, who had been eliminated, back into the action.
When playing the hugely popular online survival video game you aim to be the last player standing la "The Hunger Games" you can revive a squad member or partner, when playing as a duo, if they are killed in action.
Should a player be eliminated in the game, they will drop a reboot card, which remains active for 90 seconds, during which time a teammate can collect it.
They then take the card to one of several "reboot vans" positioned across the game map.
That will bring the teammate back into the action.
The feature, described in the game's latest version update notes Tuesday, is new to "Fortnite," but it's familiar to players of "Apex Legends," a newer rival in the popular battle royal game category.
"Apex Legends" launched the feature two months ago, letting players take a downed teammate's banner to a beacon to have them respawn.
Never give up, never surrender!
Bring eliminated teammates back into battle with the Reboot Van.
Drop in and try it now!
pic.twitter.com/W40I9JEO3Q Fortnite (@FortniteGame) April 10, 2019 Word about the reboot vans coming to "Fortnite" leaked about two months ago, says tech site The Verge.
"The feature is a direct copy of arguably the best feature of ... 'Apex Legends'."
When a player respawns in "Apex Legends," however, they have no weapons and will need to hurry to restock before getting killed again.
In "Fortnite," players will have a pistol, some ammo and some resources to help them defend themselves.
"The rise of EA and Respawn's 'Apex Legends' suddenly means Epic Games is under intense pressure to keep 'Fortnite' fresh," wrote Engadget.
This isn't the first time "Fortnite" publisher Epic Games has tipped its hat to Respawn and "Apex Legends," which hit 50 million players within its first month.
In February, "Fortnite" also got a nonverbal communications system similar to the one in "Apex Legends," which lets players highlight objectives without voice chat.
Ban 'Fortnite'?
: Prince Harry says the game is designed to be addictive, BBC says Apex Legends: A parents' guide to the new game your kids are playing Follow Mike Snider on Twitter @mikesnider Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/talkingtech/2019/04/10/fortnite-reboot-vans-let-you-revive-fallen-teammates/3424445002/
Sydney Baig pays a merchant with her Greenlight Mastercard debit card.
(Photo: Edward C. baig) I wish I could tell you that I finally gave in to my teenage daughters relentless request for a debit card so that I could impart fatherly financial wisdom.
The truth is, I would slip Sydney a few bucks here and there when she went to the mall with her friends and I wasnt exactly keeping a tight accounting of her cash or spending habits.
Nonetheless, I fell for the pitch behind the Greenlight Mastercard that I got for her.
Namely, that this $4.99-a-month card, one of several plastic debit or prepaid cards aimed at younger spenders FamZoo, Current, and gohenry, are among other variations would help me set spending limits and raise a financially-smart kid.
And maybe, just maybe, teach her everything from operating within a budget to learning about the concept of compound interest.
What parents are asking about kids' spending Before choosing Greenlight, my wife and I were asking the same questions on the minds of many parents: How old should your kids be before they get their first debit card?
How do you teach your kids to be responsible about money?
Should you give them an allowance, and if so, how much?
Do you make them work for the money by doing, say, household chores?
The short answer is that every family and circumstance are different.
Ask yourself honestly if your kid is conscientious, mature and independent.
Then consider what kind of shape your own finances are in.
Another tax headache: Another tax headache ahead: IRS is changing paycheck withholdings and it'll be a doozy AT&T 5G expands: AT&T expands mobile 5G rollout with seven new cities, total rises to 19 CLOSE Elizabeth Keatinge tells us about the places in the country where the most credit card debt is.
Buzz60, Buzz60 Frankly, given how much credit card debt so many adults have racked up, its not lost on me that even grown-ups dont always take the fiscally prudent path.
The sweet spot for when it is appropriate to give kids their card tends to be around the time between middle and high school, says Bill Dwight, the founder of FamZoo.com, which combines a prepaid card with a family finance app.
Greenlight co-founder and CEO Tim Sheehan sees a similar starting age.
But some kids get cards when they're younger, others older, and there are no specific minimum age restrictions.
Debit cards are obviously not credit cards, and the distinction is very likely lost on kids who mistakenly may see all the plastic in your wallet as being equal.
Its up to you to right off the bat explain the difference and let them know that the card youve given them has those finite spending limits.
Greenlight debit card is a Mastercard.
(Photo: Greenlight) While not endorsing any one particular debit card for kids, Laura Levine, CEO of the JumpStart Coalition for Personal Financial Literacy in Washington, D.C., is a fan of the concept.
But there are caveats.
What I remind parents is you dont just hand the card over and walk away and say this experience will teach them, she says.
I think these debit cards created for young people are a wonderful practice tool with a lot of parent guidance.
Setting spending limits The Greenlight card has several features I really like that likely would appeal to other parents, too, all managed via the parent version of the Greenlight app.
After funding the Parents Wallet through your own bank account, you get to dictate how your kid can spend.
You can direct funds, for instance, into a Spend Anywhere bucket that is just that; the kid can use the plastic card in any store that accepts a Mastercard.
But you can also apportion a set amount of money that can be spent only in stores or types of stores (any restaurant, any gas station, etc.)
that you specifically approve of in advance.
You can also allow the kid to withdraw cash from an ATM, up to an amount you designate.
Parents can view the childs spend history through the app.
On their version of the app, kids can check their balance and permissions.
You can also arrange to receive notifications that tell you where and when your kid spends money or in case a merchant declines a purchase.
And yes, you can allow your kid through the app to request more money on the spot allow such requests at your own peril.
Both parents can manage the kids accounts.
And the $4.99 monthly fee covers up to five children in your family.
(I haven't gotten one for my 12-year-old son yet.)
One nice feature encourages your kids to put money into a Giving category where they can make charitable donations.
You can automate giving the child an allowance via the app, though how much money to give them is of course up to you.
According to Levine, the old rule of thumb of giving a kid $1 a week for every year of their age may be outdated.
"If the amount that we allocate them for their allowance is so little that it takes them so long to accumulate enough for anything meaningful, they won't make it and give up and get frustrated and it'll leave a bad in taste in their mouth," she says.
"We don't want to be so generous that it's not a struggle; we want them to learn delayed gratification.
But if it's an impossibly long difficult delay it may not be the outcome that we want."
Inside Greenlight, you can tie an allowance to a set of designated chores.
Since parents may disagree on whether you should make your kid work for the allowance or that you should pay them for helping around the house, you can debate this one among yourselves.
The only thing that is important is that you have a thoughtful system that you roll out with your kid and you have conversations about money, says Dwight of FamZoo.
Paying your kid interest Both FamZoo and Greenlight encourage a kid to save through a parent-paid interest rate feature.
In Greenlight, the annual percentage yield interest rate of this feature is calculated and paid monthly based on the average daily balance of your childs total savings in the previous month.
The money comes out of your own parent account, and hopefully gives the kid the sense that left alone, their savings balance will grow.
If your kid wants to purchase a bigger ticket item than youve given them the money for, they can put money into a savings goal account.
The kid would then need your permission to move money out of that account.
Parents can try to encourage their kids to save through a paid interest rate inside Greenlight.
(Photo: Edward C. Baig) Greenlight has built-in safety features.
Data and any pictures of your kid that you uploaded are encrypted.
Theres a PIN associated with the Greenlight card, and the accounts are FDIC insured.
The company also says it has disabled card usage in any store or website that handles or does business in wire transfers, money orders, escort services, massage parlors, lotteries, gambling, horse racing, and dog racing.
Keep in mind that any responsible message you want to teach your kid about finance isnt going to happen overnight.
And recognize that when kids first get a card, it could burn a hole in their pocket.
I started Syd out with what was to my mind a generous $100 contribution.
I tried to stress that she shouldnt blow it all in one place at one time because shed have to learn to budget.
Lets just say this concept is a work in progress.
I also made a tactical error when I chose to surprise her with Greenlight.
She freaked out when she received an unexpected text on her phone that said, Your Dad would like you to join him on Greenlight and supplied a link she should click on.
Whats next?
Greenlights Sheehan hopes to launch a custodial brokerage account in the second half of the year to teach kids how to invest.
I'm not there yet with my own kids.
Parents, let us know how you manage finances with your kids.
Do you give them an allowance?
Do they have a debit or other card?
Email: ebaig@usatoday.com; Follow @edbaig on Twitter Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/columnist/baig/2019/04/10/greenlight-debit-card-kids-can-teach-them-money/3365502002/
The best KitchenAid Stand Mixer is on sale for an amazing price right now The best stand mixer we've ever tested is on salefor now.
(Photo: Walmart / KitchenAid) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA Todays newsroom and any business incentives.
Stand mixers are a staple in many kitchens, especially if you love to bake.
They're like having an extra set of hands (or two) while you work, so whether you're trying to knead sticky dough or whip together cakes, creams, and other delicious treats, the best stand mixers can make these tasks fly by with ease.
When it comes to stand mixers, KitchenAid is in a category all its own, and the brand has tons of stand mixers to choose from in different sizes and colors.
But right now, you can get the best stand mixer we've ever tried for one of its lowest prices ever during Walmart's massive spring home sale.
For the next 48 hours only, you can get the KitchenAid Artisan Series 5-Quart Tilt-Head Stand Mixer in Cobalt Blue with a glass bowl for $216.
That's a savings of more than $80 on this model, which makes this a great deal, since it usually costs approximately $299 at Walmart and other retailers like Amazon.
More: 17 deals you'll love from Bloomingdale's massive spring sale Beyond the deal itself, there's a lot to love about this model stand mixer.
The mixer features a tilt lever lock and splash guard, plus it has 10-speed functionality.
It also comes with attachments that are easy to put on, including a flat beater, dough hook, and wire whip.
In addition to the amazing deal on the Artisan model, you can save $75 on a KitchenAid Architect Series 5-Quart Tilt-Head Stand Mixer in Cocoa Silver during Walmart's sale.
In the past, we've tested both the Artisan and Architect series models and found that they're virtually identical, except for color options and attachments.
Mixing attachments with the Architect series are made from burnished metal, while the accessories with the Artisan series are white-coated.
Stand mixers don't come cheap, but there's never been a better time to invest in one than right now.
You can also get huge savings at Walmart right now on more than 1,000 products that can improve your home, like the Eufy RoboVac 11c Pet Edition Wi-Fi Connected Robot Vacuum, Ninja Supra Kitchen Blender System with Food Processor, and more, so don't waitgrab these deals now while you can.
The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered.
Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest deals, reviews, and more.
Prices are accurate at the time this article was published, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2019/04/10/kitchenaid-artisan-series-5-qt-stand-mixer-sale-walmart-right-now/3421677002/
None Actors Jason Momoa, left, and Alfre Woodard speak at the Steve Jobs Theater during an event to announce new Apple products on March 25, 2019, in Cupertino, Calif. JEFFERSON GRAHAM, USA TODAY
None Plug your devices into these smart plugs and switches, and control it all using an app or your voice.
Set timers, too.
Belkin/WeMo
None 2017's Galaxy S8 shrunk the borders at the top and bottom of the phone to create Samsung's "infinity display" that allowed the screen to cover most of the front of the phone.
With a 5.8-inch screen on the S8 and a 6.2-inch display on the S8+, the line also marked Samsung's switch to USB-C and added new features such as iris scanning to unlock the phone.
JUNG YEON-JE, AFP/Getty Images
None The LG Watch W7 is a Wear OS smartwatch with a classic watch design.
You can go up to 100 days between charges when the device is in Just Watch Mode.
Use the smartwatch to get proactive help from the Google Assistant and health coaching from Google Fit, an open ecosystem that makes it easy to store, access, and manage fitness data.
Its priced at $449.99 on BestBuy.com Courtesy of Best Buy
None This is the Dalyan River in south-western Turkey, April 28, 2018.
This area is where the Dalyan River and and the mouth of the delta meet at the Agean see and is a national conservation site for three varieties of turtles and over 100 species of birds.
TOLGA BOZOGLU, EPA-EFE
FILE PHOTO: Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte and his Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe (not pictured) hold a joint news conference in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, January 9, 2019.
REUTERS/Piroschka van de Wouw/File Photo AMSTERDAM (Reuters) - Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte on Friday said his government is exploring how to design the construction of a 5G telecoms network, but has no opinion yet on the possible role of Chinese technology companies in this.
We are closely assessing how we can help in the roll out of a 5G network in the Netherlands, as far as politicians have anything to say about that, but its too early to make any announcements, Rutte said.
The United States has lobbied Europe to shut out Chinese technology company Huawei from such projects, saying its equipment could be used by the Chinese government for espionage.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - A court in Russia fined Facebook on Friday for failing to tell authorities where it stores Russian user data, Russian news agencies reported, a ruling that highlights wrangling between tech giants and Moscow as it ramps up Internet controls.
FILE PHOTO: A 3D-printed Facebook logo is displayed in front of binary digits in this illustration taken, March 18, 2018.
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration/File Photo The court fined Facebook 3,000 roubles ($47) for not providing information in line with legislation that came into force in 2015 requiring social media companies to store user data on servers located in Russia.
The only tools Moscow currently has to enforce its data rules are fines that often amount to small sums or blocking the offending online service, an option fraught with technical difficulties.
Russia plans to impose stiffer fines on technology firms that fail to comply with its laws, sources familiar with the plans told Reuters in October.
Russia blocked access to LinkedIn in 2016 for not holding its Russian user data on servers in Russia.
Last year it moved to block the Telegram instant messaging service, but the attempt failed and the service is still popular.
Facebook did not send a representative to the hearing on Friday, but the court pressed ahead anyway as Facebook did not seek for it to be postponed, the Interfax news agency cited the court as saying.
A court fined Twitter 3,000 roubles for a similar offense last week.
Russia has introduced tougher Internet laws in the last five years, requiring search engines to delete some search results and messaging services to share encryption keys with security services.
Russian authorities could gain new powers to block content in November when draft legislation that seeks to expand Russias sovereignty over its segment of the web could come into force.
The bill sailed through a second reading on Thursday in parliament and will become law if it is approved in a final reading, passed by the upper chamber and signed by President Vladimir Putin.
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Alibaba Group founder and billionaire Jack Ma has defended the grueling overtime work culture at many of Chinas tech companies, calling it a huge blessing for young workers.
FILE PHOTO: Alibaba Group co-founder and Executive Chairman Jack Ma attends Alibaba Group's 11.11 Singles' Day global shopping festival in Shanghai, China, November 12, 2018.
REUTERS/Aly Song/File Photo The e-commerce magnate weighed into a debate about work-life balance and the overtime hours demanded by some companies as the sector slows after years of breakneck growth.
In a speech to Alibaba employees, Ma defended the industrys 996 work schedule, which refers to the 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. workday, six days a week.
I personally think that being able to work 996 is a huge blessing, he said in remarks posted on the companys WeChat account.
Many companies and many people dont have the opportunity to work 996, Ma said.
If you dont work 996 when you are young, when can you ever work 996?
The issue has fueled an online debate and protests on some coding platforms, where workers have swapped examples of excessive overtime demands at some companies.
Ma, a former English teacher who co-founded Alibaba in 1999 and has become one of Chinas richest people, said he and early employees regularly worked long hours.
In this world, everyone wants success, wants a nice life, wants to be respected, Ma said.
Let me ask everyone, if you dont put out more time and energy than others, how can you achieve the success you want?
Ma referred to the tech industry today where some people are without jobs, or working at companies in search of revenue or facing closure.
Compared to them, up to this day, I still feel lucky, I dont regret (working 12 hour days), I would never change this part of me, he said.
This month activists on Microsofts GitHub, the online code repository site, launched a project titled 996.ICU where tech workers listed Alibaba among the companies ranked as having some of the worst working conditions.
On Thursday, an opinion piece published in a state newspaper argued that 996 violated Chinas Labor Law, which stipulates that average work hours cannot exceed 40 hours a week.
Creating a corporate culture of encouraged overtime will not only not help a business core competitiveness, it might inhibit and damage a companys ability to innovate, the unnamed author wrote in the Peoples Daily.
TOKYO (Reuters) - A Chinese-Taiwanese group will take control of Apple Inc supplier Japan Display after pumping in funds as part of a 232 billion yen ($2.1 billion) bailout plan for the troubled display panel maker.
FILE PHOTO: Japan Display Inc's logo is pictured at its headquarters in Tokyo, Japan, August 9, 2016.
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon/File Photo The rescue comes after previous, publicly funded bailouts failed to help the company cut its dependence on Apple, whose slowing iPhone sales have badly hit Japan Display.
The deal will make the buyers Japan Displays biggest shareholders - with a 49.8 percent stake - replacing the Japanese government-backed INCJ fund and effectively ending the governments efforts to keep the last remaining domestic display maker out of foreign hands.
The buyer group, which includes Taiwanese flat screen maker TPK Holding and Chinese investment firm Harvest Group, will inject up to 80 billion yen into Japan Display by buying shares and bonds.
INCJ will also join the bailout by accepting a debt-to-preferred equity swap totaling 75 billion yen and extending senior loans worth 77 billion yen.
After the deal its stake will fall to 12.7 percent from 25.3 percent.
The deal could potentially be subject to a U.S. national security review at a time when Washington is stepping up its scrutiny on Chinese investment in the United States.
Japan Display has a subsidiary in San Jose, a U.S. business that could give the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) jurisdiction over the deal.
Displays may not necessarily be critical technologies that are export controlled, but some of Japan Displays technologies such as fingerprint sensors could raise a national security concern, said Nancy Fischer and Matthew Rabinowitz, partner and senior associate, respectively, at U.S.-based law firm Pillsbury.
Minoru Kikuoka, Japan Displays finance division head, told reporters at a briefing that the companys legal advisors have said a CFIUS filing would not be necessary.
CFIUS, however, retains indefinite jurisdiction to request a filing and review the transaction, even after it closes.
NEW BEGINNINGS The bailout comes as sales of new iPhone models - many of which use newer organic light-emitting displays (OLED) - have left Japan Displays new factory that makes liquid crystal display (LCD) panels running at half capacity.
Japan Display expects to post its fifth straight year of net losses in the year ending this month, as disappointing sales of Apples iPhone XR, the only model with an LCD screen, dashed hopes for a turnaround.
The Apple business accounted for more than half of Japan Displays revenue over the last four years.
Kikuoka said at the briefing, without naming Apple, that Japan Display still owes its client about 100 billion yen.
The U.S. tech giant fronted most of the $1.5 billion construction costs for a new LCD factory three years ago.
We discussed with our client, including that (repayment) issue as well, before we reached the agreement, Kikuoka said.
Under the latest deal, Japan Display and Harvest Tech, part of the buyout group, are planning to jointly produce OLED panels, used in top-end iPhones, Japan Display said.
Japan Display Inc's Chief Executive Nobuhiro Higashiiriki attends a news conference in Tokyo, Japan August 9, 2017.
REUTERS/Issei Kato Reuters reported earlier this month that Japan Display will begin supplying OLED screens for the Apple Watch later this year.
Japan Display was formed in 2012 by combining the LCD businesses of Hitachi Ltd, Toshiba Corp and Sony Corp in a deal brokered by the government.
It went public in March 2014 and was worth more than 400 billion yen then.
It is now worth 67 billion yen.
BURBANK, Calif. (Reuters) - Walt Disney Co priced its highly anticipated streaming video service below Netflix in an aggressive move to challenge the dominant streaming service and entice families to buy yet another monthly subscription.
Disney said on Thursday its new family-friendly streaming service will cost $7 monthly or $70 annually with a slate of new and classic TV shows and movies from some of the worlds most popular entertainment franchises in a bid to challenge the digital dominance of Netflix.
The ad-free monthly subscription called Disney+ is set to launch on Nov. 12 and in every major global market over time, the company said.
In addition to Disney films and TV shows, it will feature programming from the Marvel superhero universe, the Star Wars galaxy, Toy Story creator Pixar animation the National Geographic channel and the entire library of The Simpsons.
What we are putting forward is an aggressive strategy, Disney Chief Executive Bob Iger told analysts at the presentation.
Weve got to be very serious and all in on it.
The company set a target of luring between 60 million to 90 million subscribers and achieving profitability in fiscal year 2024.
It plans to plow a little over $1 billion in cash to finance original programming in fiscal 2020 and about $2 billion by 2024.
The cost of the service was lower than the $7.50 per month that Wall Street analysts expected on average, according to a Reuters poll, and could likely be seen as a stronger bid to appeal to more customers.
Patrice Cucinello, a director at Fitch Ratings, said Disney had priced the new service very affordably.
Disney is approaching streaming offerings, particularly Disney+, with guns blazing, looking to take share and quickly ramp subscriber growth, Cucinello said.
To get it in front of more people, Disney said it has struck deals with Roku Inc and Sony Corp to distribute Disney+ on streaming devices and console gaming systems and expects it to be widely available on smart televisions, tablets, and other outlets by launch.
It did not mention if it would be available on Apple Incs upcoming video service.
Disney kicked off its presentation to Wall Street analysts at its Burbank, California, headquarters on Thursday with a video that demonstrated the breadth of its portfolio, showing clips from dozens of classic TV shows and movies from Frozen and The Lion King to Avatar and The Sound of Music.
FILE PHOTO: Disney characters Mickey Mouse and Minnie Mouse attend the 25th anniversary of Disneyland Paris at the park in Marne-la-Vallee, near Paris, France, April 12, 2017.
REUTERS/Benoit Tessier/File Photo The transformation of the Mouse House, as it is known, from a cable television powerhouse into a leader of streaming media could be Igers final legacy as he told Wall Street analysts he would not extend his contract beyond 2021 and was working with the board of directors on a succession plan.
GLOBAL GROWTH Executives said they see opportunities to take its ESPN+ sport streaming video service to Latin America and are looking into international expansion of its Hulu streaming video business, which offers movies and shows targeted to adults.
Disney also forecast Hulus subscribers to reach 40 million to 60 million by fiscal 2024 and reach profitability in the United States by either 2023 or 2024.
Hulu currently has 25 million subscribers and is expected to lose $1.5 billion in the current fiscal year.
The digital push is Disneys response to cord-cutting, the dropping of cable service that has hit its ESPN sports network and other channels, and the rise of Netflix Inc.
The Silicon Valley upstart has amassed 139 million customers worldwide since it began streaming 12 years ago.
Disney will join the market at a time when audiences are facing a host of choices, and monthly bills, for digital entertainment.
Apple, AT&T Incs WarnerMedia and others plan new streaming services.
Slideshow (3 Images) To bolster its potential digital portfolio, Disney recently purchased film and TV assets from Rupert Murdochs 21st Century Fox and gained prized properties such as Avatar.
Disney had been supplying new movies such as Black Panther and Beauty and the Beast to Netflix after their runs in theaters but ended that arrangement this year to feed its own streaming ambitions.
The company estimated it is foregoing $150 million in licensing revenue this fiscal year by saving programming for its own platforms.
The Disney+ programming will draw in part from Disneys deep library of classic family films.
It also will include exclusive original content such as a live-action Star Wars series called The Mandalorian, a show focused on Marvel movie villain Loki, and animated Monsters at Work, inspired by hit Pixar movie Monsters Inc.
Some new Disney movies, such as a Lady and the Tramp remake, will go directly to the Disney+ app.
Other new releases will appear on Disney+ after their run in theaters and after they cycle out of the home video sales window, executives have said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S.
Senator Mark Warner, who co-sponsored legislation this week to ban deceptive practices by social media companies, said on Thursday he was eyeing additional bills aimed at limiting hate speech and allowing users to move their data across platforms.
FILE PHOTO: Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA) talks with military families about their hazardous living conditions during a meeting at the Peninsula Workforce Development Office in Newport News, Virginia, U.S. March 11, 2019.
REUTERS/Ryan M. Kelly The Democratic lawmaker said he would offer more bills in the next month or two, ideally with Republican colleagues as a co-sponsor.
The additional legislation could focus on hate speech, data portability, which gives social media users the ability to easily take their data to another site, and transparency about who or what is on the other side of an internet conversation, Warner said in an interview with Reuters.
On Tuesday, Warner joined with Republican Senator Deb Fischer to introduce a bill to bar online platforms like Facebook Inc or Alphabet Incs Google from misleading people into giving personal data to companies, or otherwise tricking them.
It would also ban online platforms with more than 100 million monthly active users from designing addicting games or other websites for children under age 13.
Warner is eager to increase transparency on social media platforms.
Shouldnt we have the right to know whether were being contacted by a human being versus a bot when youre on social media?
he said.
Issues of engagement and data collection are key for social media companies since they use information gathered about users to sell advertisements, a key source of profit.
Warner noted the real-life implications of hate speech on social media, pointing to mass killings in New Zealand and Pittsburgh.
In a massacre in New Zealand, a gunman opened fire in two mosques on March 15, killing 50 people as he broadcast the attack live on Facebook.
Last year, 11 people were shot to death in a Pittsburgh synagogue.
The man accused in the killings had made aggressive anti-Semitic comments in online forums.
Some of the proposed legislation could be rolled into a federal privacy bill being drafted in Congress.
That bill was prompted by Californias data privacy law that imposes fines of up to $7,500 on large companies for intentional failure to disclose data collection or delete user data on request, or for selling others data without permission.
It takes effect next year.
I want technology to stay.
I want the social media platforms to stay, Warner said.
But I do think the days of the Wild Wild West where anything goes, people just arent going to allow it.
(Reuters) - SoftBank Group Corp leader Masayoshi Son has much bigger ambitions for transportation than simply seeing his investment in Uber Technologies Inc turn into more than $13 billion when the company goes public next month.
FILE PHOTO: A journalist raises her hand to ask a question to Japan's SoftBank Group Corp Chief Executive Masayoshi Son during a news conference in Tokyo, Japan, November 5, 2018.
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon The Japanese entrepreneur is placing a $60 billion bet in more than 40 companies in a bid to steer the $3 trillion global automotive industry now dominated by vehicles people own and drive to a spectrum of transportation services available at the touch of a smartphone app.
Those services range from ride hailing and car sharing to delivery robots and self-driving vehicles.
The extent of those investments, based on a Reuters analysis of publicly available data and interviews with a dozen sources familiar with SoftBanks investment strategy, has not previously been reported.
They show how Son has emerged as one of the power players trying to influence how people and goods move about the world in the coming decades.
Graphic: Softbank's future mobility investments, click tmsnrt.rs/2UQXn4F Key partners in Sons quest are Uber, the U.S. ride services leader, and Japans Toyota Motor Corp. Ubers planned initial public stock offering in May is expected to value the company at $90 billion to $100 billion, representing a potential windfall to SoftBank, which put $8 billion into Uber for a 15 percent stake in January 2018.
The rising value of that investment will further supercharge Sons growing clout in the sector, and eventually provide him with additional capital to invest in mobility.
Closer to home, Toyota approached Son more than a year ago about a partnership, and SoftBank in February 2018 signed a memorandum of understanding with the automaker to consider how they might jointly develop mobility services, according to sources familiar with the document.
The agreement was followed by the launch of a joint venture dubbed Monet Technologies, designed to set up automated mobility services.
SoftBank and Toyota are also in talks to co-lead a $1 billion investment in Ubers self-driving unit, Reuters reported in March.
While the deal is close to being finalized, discussions remain ongoing around issues such as how much of the unit SoftBank would control, sources told Reuters.
Toyota declined to comment for this story.
In an interview with Reuters, SoftBank Group Chief Operating Officer Marcelo Claure said that the two Japanese companies have a lot sessions in which we think and we try to redefine the future of mobility.
Central to those sessions are discussions about how Toyota and SoftBank can collaborate to bring autonomous vehicles to Japan, he said.
Son has been working since 2014 to weave together a tapestry of diverse transportation bets.
His deep portfolio of investments range literally from A to Z: From Arm, a British semiconductor maker that Son acquired in 2016 for $32 billion, to Zume Pizza, a Silicon Valley startup that aims to automate pizza delivery and raised $375 million last year from SoftBank.
A FAMILY AFFAIR SoftBank has used at least five investment vehicles, including the $100 billion Vision Fund, from which to make its mobility investments, public records show.
Its deep pockets, aggressive investing tactics and sweeping vision of the future of transportation give SoftBank and its leader Son an outsized influence in shaping the entire industry.
The Vision Fund has more than 30 investment professionals who work to promote cooperation and integration among the portfolio companies, which they refer to as a family.
We can create this web where companies talk to each other and they help each other because they are part of the same family and they do joint ventures and they do joint investments, Claure said.
SoftBank and its affiliates have focused some of their biggest investments on self-driving firm Cruise, a unit of GM, and four global ride-services giants Uber, Didi Chuxing, Ola and Grab.
SoftBank is the largest shareholder in the four ride-services companies and the largest outside shareholder in Cruise.
Son is the true emperor of future mobility, said Tom De Vleesschauwer, senior director of long-term planning and sustainability at IHS Automotive.
To help implement his vision, Son also allied with General Motors Co and Honda Motor Co, each of which is investing heavily in self-driving vehicles and ride services.
Son laid out his future of transportation vision in an October press conference alongside Toyota, where he talked about building a cluster of leading mobility companies in different sectors, which can collaborate with each other.
Toyota a year ago introduced e-Palette, an electric shuttle designed for self-driving ride and delivery services, and quickly signed up Uber and Didi as development partners.
The e-Palette is also the centerpiece of Monet Technologies, which added Honda as a minority partner in March.
All are tied back to SoftBank.
That collaboration is expected to enable some SoftBank companies to become superapps, or applications where customers go for a range of services, such as transportation, shopping and payments.
Such companies can be much more lucrative than those that offer just one core business or service.
But the fact that many of SoftBanks companies are rivals can complicate the investors ambitions.
Uber and Ola, the Indian ride-hailing company, remain fierce competitors and are never in the same room when SoftBank discusses ride-hailing strategies, Claure said.
Traditionally in venture capital, funds do not invest in direct competitors.
There are tremendous synergies, but on the other hand there is significant risk of tremendous conflicts of interest, said Paul Asel, managing partner at NGP Capital and a longtime mobility investor.
There are limits to the investors influence, however.
For example, SoftBank encouraged Cruise to acquire or take a stake in self-driving startup Nuro, but talks between the companies never led to a deal, according to two sources with knowledge of the matter.
So SoftBank made its own, $940 million investment in Nuro.
HUNTING BIG GAME In his five-year transportation push, Sons stakes in ride services startups now look like bargains.
In late 2014, SoftBank joined Alibaba, Chinas internet giant in which SoftBank also has a stake, in a $600 million funding round in Kuaidi Dache, the forerunner of Chinas Didi.
That investment has grown to more than $11 billion in Didi, in which SoftBank now holds more than 20 percent.
SoftBanks partnerships with major automakers are also proving to be a boon to transportation startups.
Toyota invested in Uber in 2016, then boosted its stake seven months after SoftBanks investment.
Honda followed SoftBank with an investment into Grab, and last year committed $2.75 billion to Cruises self-driving project, aiding SoftBanks ambitions.
But the SoftBank portfolio is not without risks, particularly for companies dependent on the Japanese firm to sustain them financially for years to come.
SoftBank faces financial pressures, including an obligation to pay an annual 7 percent dividend on a portion of the invested capital and has burnt through the majority of the Vision Fund.
And it is compelled by a new U.S. law cracking down on foreign investment in technology to submit many of its mobility investments to a government regulatory agency for approval.
Should that regulatory group block a deal, it could be catastrophic to a startup.
But there is some safety for Son given the size of his portfolio.
Hes shooting for big game, Roger Lanctot, global automotive practice director at Strategy Analytics, said of Son.
He only needs to bag one or two and he will do just fine.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Walt Disney Co unveiled new details on Thursday about Disney+, a family-friendly digital video subscription that is set to debut later this year and compete with Netflix Inc.
FILE PHOTO: The entrance to Walt Disney studios is seen in Burbank, California, U.S. August 6, 2018.
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson/File Photo The ad-free service will include movies and TV series from Disney and will feature programming from the Marvel superhero universe, the Star Wars galaxy, Toy Story creator Pixar animation and the National Geographic channel.
It will cost $7 a month or $70 per year.
When the service debuts on Nov. 12, some of the programming available from Disneys libraries will include: -Classic Disney animated movies such as 101 Dalmatians and Bambi -The entire Pixar catalog including A Bugs Life and Cars -Captain Marvel and three other Marvel films -The first and second Star Wars trilogies -Live-action movies such as the Pirates of the Caribbean series, Mary Poppins and The Sound of Music.
-More than 5,000 episodes of Disney Channel shows such as Hannah Montana Disney also will create original programming exclusively for the service.
According to the company, that will include: STAR WARS A new season of animated series Star Wars: The Clone Wars A live-action Star Wars series called The Mandalorian, developed by Jon Favreau A TV series starring Diego Luna that is a prequel to the movie Rogue One: A Star Wars Story MARVEL A series focused on the villain Loki, played by Tom Hiddleston A series starring Elizabeth Olsen as Scarlet Witch ANIMATION Monsters at Work, a series inspired by Pixar hit Monsters Inc. Billy Crystal and John Goodman will return as the voices of Mike and Sulley.
MOVIES Remakes of Disney classics such as Lady and the Tramp and Sword in the Stone Noelle, a Christmas fantasy adventure starring Anna Kendrick and Bill Hader Togo, starring Willem Dafoe in a story about a famous sled-dog TELEVISION A new High School Musical series Diary of a Female President, a comedy series about a 12-year-old Cuban-American girl on a journey to become president of the United States NON-FICTION Marvels 616, a documentary series exploring the intersection between Marvel stories and characters and the real world Be Our Chef, a food competition show in which families compete and the winners dish will be served at Walt Disney World Rogue Trip, a travel guide to places an average tourist is least likely to visit
NEW YORK (Reuters) - ESPN+, Walt Disney Cos sports video streaming service, could attract between 8 million and 12 million paying subscribers by the end of the fiscal 2024 year, the company said on Thursday.
FILE PHOTO: A screen shows the logo and a ticker symbol for The Walt Disney Company on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York, U.S., December 14, 2017.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid/File Photo Disneys forecast for significant growth in paying customers in the next few years was disclosed in a presentation of its streaming video strategy to Wall Street.
Operating losses for ESPN+ are expected to be $650 million annually in both fiscal 2019 and 2020, Disneys chief financial officer, Christine McCarthy, said during an investor day webcast presentation.
But the service, which launched one year ago, should reach profitability by 2023, she said.
I view this positively because I think that they need to illustrate the subscriber growth to validate the investment.
Theyre putting out some very strong number guides to the market, said Patrice Cucinello, a director at Fitch Ratings.
Theyre going guns blazing at direct consumer.
As cable and traditional media companies lose subscribers to the likes of Netflix Inc, they are building new streaming video businesses that appeal directly to consumers.
Disney launched ESPN+ a year ago as a way to test its streaming services and distribute additional sports content directly to fans, for a monthly or yearly fee.
Since then, ESPN+ has drawn millions of subscribers, inked sports rights deals, and seen its mobile app rise in popularity.
Disney is also moving forward with its larger plans for Disney+, which will stream its trove of new and classic blockbuster movies.
As for current paying sports fans, Disney said the number was currently over 2 million, or roughly what it disclosed in February.
Disneys own estimates about ESPN+ growth seemed slightly higher than analysts, though its time frame was longer.
Morgan Stanley analysts expect 2.7 million people to be paying for ESPN+ access by the end of fiscal 2019 and 3.9 million by the end of fiscal 2020.
By 2022, it could have 6.7 million, Morgan Stanley said.
MoffettNathanson gave a more modest outlook, predicting that ESPN+ will end fiscal 2019 flat, with just 2 million subscribers, growing to 4 million by 2022 and 5 million by 2023.
Analysts at Citi predicted that ESPN+ would have 4 million paying subscribers by fiscal 2020.
SHEPTON MALLET, England (Reuters) - They may look like regular cows, but a herd of Friesian dairy cattle at a British farm are internet pioneers and they are enjoying the benefits of 5G connectivity before you.
Cisco Systems Inc, which is developing network infrastructure for the emerging technology, has set up 5G testbeds to trial wireless and mobile connectivity in three rural locations.
5G promises super-fast connections, which evangelists say will transform the way we live our lives, enabling everything from self-driving cars to augmented-reality glasses and downloading a feature-length film to your phone in seconds.
While it is being used in pockets of pilot studies around the world, the first near-nationwide coverage is not expected in countries such as China, Japan or the United States until 2023, according to industry analysts.
For the cows, among the 5G-connected gadgets they are wearing is a collar that controls a robotic milking system.
When the cow feels ready to be milked it will approach machine gates that will automatically open.
The device recognizes the individual to precisely latch on to its teats for milking, while the cow munches on a food reward.
At the government-funded Agricultural Engineering Precision Innovation Centre (Agri-EPI Centre) in Shepton Mallet, in southwest England, around 50 of the 180-strong herd is fitted with the 5G smart collars and health-monitoring ear tags.
The gadgets do not harm the cows and the monitoring allows handlers to see any signs of distress.
We are testing the ability of 5G to transmit the data from our sensors much quicker, and not via the farms PC and a slow broadband internet connection, said Duncan Forbes, Project Manager at the Agri-Epi Centre And the significance of that is it means that this sort of technology could be taken up ... not just on farms but on rural communities right across the country.
A herd of Friesian dairy cattle wear 5G smart collars that allow them to be milked by a robotic milking machine at a farm in Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England, in this still from video obtained April 11, 2019.
REUTERS/Reuters TV The working dairy, set up by Agri-EPI with the support of Britains innovation agency, uses a range of technology; including automated brushes that rotate when the cow rubs up against them, sensor-operated curtains that open depending on the weather, and a smart feeding system that automatically delivers food in the barn via ceiling-mounted rails.
We can connect every cow, we can connect every animal on this farm, Ciscos Nick Chrissos said.
Thats what 5G can do for farming really unleash the power that we have within this farm, everywhere around the UK and everywhere around the world.
File photo: Batteries are seen in the engine compartment of a VW Beetle 1995, locally called "Vocho", in Monterrey April 22, 2015.
REUTERS/Daniel Becerril FRANKFURT (Reuters) - German car parts makers Benteler and Freudenberg Vibracoustic are joining forces in the development of parts for electric vehicles, the companies said on Thursday, amid a growing trend of companies in the sector cooperating to cope with change.
The car industry is facing multi-billion euros investment crunch as manufacturers shift from developing combustion engined cars toward zero-emission electric and autonomous vehicles.
Benteler will provide know-how on chassis and system integration and Vibracoustic expertise in reducing noise and vibration, the companies said.
Separately, Freudenberg Chief Executive Mohsen Sohi said that the group has for now shelved plans for an initial public offering of Vibracoustic.
We still consider a stock market flotation of Vibracoustic, but not in the near future as market conditions are unfavorable.
In the event of a future listing, Freudenberg will definitely remain an anchor investor of Vibracoustic, he said.
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Chinas largest stock images provider, Visual China Group, shut its website and apologized on Friday after it falsely claimed copyright of images such as the first photo of a black hole and Chinas national flag.
The company, which partners with U.S. photo agency Getty Images, said in a post on its official Weibo account the incident revealed its weak management and that it was cooperating with authorities investigating the matter.
Shares in the company slumped by the maximum 10 percent allowed.
The topic Visual China apologises was among the most-read items on Chinas Twitter-like Weibo platform on Friday, with over 250 million views.
According to its website, Visual China has over 40 million editorial images and 1.25 million videos.
Criticism of the company mounted earlier this week after Visual China put its logo over the first photo of a black hole, which was the work of a team of 200 scientists known as the Event Horizon Telescope project.
The company said it had obtained a non-exclusive editing license from the project for media use.
Other users also questioned why the company was asking for payment for the use of images like Chinas flag and logos of Chinese companies such as Baidu.
The Tianjin city branch of Chinas internet watchdog said on Weibo that it had met the companys leaders on Thursday evening and ordered them to rectify its website.
Visual China acknowledged that its website had issues with non-compliant pictures which it said had been provided by contractors, and pledged to learn from these lessons.
IP RIGHTS Political control of the internet has tightened under President Xi Jinping, with demands that companies tighten oversight of harmful information which could range from vulgar to politically sensitive content.
The countrys leaders have also pledged to do more to protect intellectual property rights amid complaints by the United States and other key trading partners about the theft of such assets.
Elliot Papageorgiou, the Shanghai-based head of the IP practice at law firm Clyde & Co., said Visual Chinas use of the black hole image was embarrassing due to the photos high profile.
It comes at an inconvenient time because China is trying hard to get recognition for some positive steps it is taking to protect intellectual property, he said.
(Reuters) - The most powerful operational rocket in the world, SpaceXs Falcon Heavy, launched its first commercial mission on Thursday from Florida in a key demonstration for billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musks space company in the race to grasp lucrative military launch contracts.
The 23-story-tall Heavy, which previously launched Musks cherry red Tesla roadster to space in a 2018 debut test flight, blasted off from Floridas Kennedy Space Center carrying its first customer payload.
T plus 33 seconds into flight, under the power of 5.1 million pounds of thrust, Falcon Heavy is headed to space, SpaceX launch commentator John Insprucker said on a livestream.
Roughly three minutes after clearing the pad, Heavys two side boosters separated from the core rocket for a synchronized landing at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, sparking boisterous cheers from SpaceX engineers in the companys Hawthorne, California headquarters.
The middle booster, after pushing the payload into space, returned nearly 10 minutes later for a successful landing on SpaceXs seafaring drone ship 400 miles (645 km) off the Florida coast.
In the 2018 test mission, Heavys core booster missed the vessel and crashed into the Atlantic Ocean.
The Falcons have landed Musk wrote on Twitter, inaugurating the first successful recovery of all three rocket boosters, which will be refurbished and re-fly in another Falcon Heavy mission this summer to carry a swarm of military and science satellites for the Air Force.
Liftoff with Heavys new military-certified Falcon 9 engines was crucial in the race with Boeing-Lockheed venture United Launch Alliance and Jeff Bezos Blue Origin as Musks SpaceX, working to flight-prove its rocket fleet one mission at a time, aims to clinch a third of all U.S. National Security Space missions - coveted military contracts worth billions.
The U.S. Air Force tapped SpaceX in 2018 to launch for $130 million a classified military satellite and in February added three more missions in a $297 million contract.
Slideshow (8 Images) SpaceX and Boeing Co are vying to send humans to space from U.S. soil for the first time in nearly a decade under NASAs Commercial Crew Program.
SpaceXs Crew Dragon capsule, atop a Falcon 9 rocket, cleared its first unmanned test flight in March ahead of its crewed mission planned for July, while the first unmanned test for Boeings Starliner capsule is slated for August on ULAs Atlas 5 rocket.
Falcon Heavy carried a communications satellite for Saudi-based telecom firm Arabsat, which will beam internet and television services over Africa, Europe and the Middle East.
Privately owned SpaceX, also known as Space Exploration Technologies Corp, was founded in 2002 by Musk, who is also a co-founder of electric car maker Tesla Inc.
The logo of Ant Financial Services Group, Alibaba's financial affiliate, is pictured at its headquarters in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, China January 24, 2018.
REUTERS/Shu Zhang SINGAPORE (Reuters) - A mutual health aid plan launched by Ant Financial Services Group, the dominant fintech player in China, has amassed more than 50 million users and is aiming for 300 million within two years, the company said late on Thursday.
The plan, dubbed Xiang Hu Bao or literally mutual protection, is marketed on Ant Financials flagship mobile payment app Alipay and provides participants a basic medical coverage with the risks and expenses distributed across all members.
It has gained unexpected popularity among Chinas low-end population, poorer sections of society, who struggle to afford medical services due to the governments inadequate social healthcare system and are under-served by traditional commercial insurers as they cannot meet the premiums and advance payments required with commercial health insurance products.
About 47 percent of Xiang Hu Bao plans 50 million participants are migrant workers and 31 percent are from rural areas and county-level regions, Ant Financial said.
Chinese billionaire Jack Mas Ant Financial was spun off from e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Co Ltd, which went public in 2014, and has played a vital role in shaping the financial technology landscape in China, shaking up the state-controlled traditional banking, asset management and insurance sectors with disruptive new products.
The expansion of Xiang Hu Bao was even faster than Ant Financials blockbuster online spare cash management platform Yue Bao, which took more than six months to reach the 50 million user milestone after launching in 2013 and has grown to become the worlds largest money market fund with 1.13 trillion yuan ($168.2 billion) in net asset as of end-2018.
China has a population of nearly 1.4 billion.
The Xiang Hu Bao health plan protects participants against 100 critical illnesses with a one-time payout of up to 300,000 yuan ($44,650).
The cost is shared equally by all other participants, capped at 188 yuan per month for individual users in 2019, according to its description.
Despite its mutual insurance features, Ant Financial said the plan is not a health insurance product, indicating the product is not regulated by the countrys insurance regulator.
Ant Financial has obtained a range of licenses to operate financial services, including payments, online banking, insurance, micro lending, and fund management in Chinas vast financial market.
Its rapid expansion has propelled regulators to place it under increased scrutiny to prevent potential systematic financial risks.
A car carrier trailer carries Tesla Model 3 electric sedans, is seen outside the Tesla factory in Fremont, California, U.S. June 22, 2018.
REUTERS/Stephen Lam (Reuters) - Tesla Inc on Thursday started leasing out its Model 3 sedan in the United States, in a financing option that would increase the electric car makers customer base.
Tesla said its customers in the United States would be able to lease any Model 3 variant for a small down payment and monthly payments thereafter, but they will not have the option to buy the car at the end of the lease.
Tesla said that it would begin bundling its autopilot software as a standard feature on all cars, raising the base price, and would drop the entry-level Model 3 Standard from online ordering.
As a result, the lowest-priced Model 3 available for order on its online menu in the United States is now the $39,500 Standard Plus, which includes Autopilot.
The company in February had rolled out its long-awaited $35,000 version of the car with great fanfare.
The company also said the Standard variant of Model 3 will now be a software-limited version of the Standard Plus, to simplify production.
As part of the changes to its online ordering, Tesla said the Model 3 Standard variant and the Model 3 Long Range Rear-Wheel Drive will be taken off the online ordering menu but will still be available for order by phone or in stores.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Uber Technologies Inc has 91 million users, but growth is slowing and it may never make a profit, the ride-hailing company said on Thursday in its IPO filing.
The document gave the first comprehensive financial picture of the decade-old company which was started after its founders struggled to get a cab on a snowy night and has changed the way much of the world travels.
The S-1 filing underscores Ubers rapid growth in the last three years but also how a string of public scandals and increased competition from rivals have weighed on its plans to attract and retain riders.
The disclosure also highlighted how far Uber remains from turning a profit, with the company cautioning it expects operating expenses to increase significantly in the foreseeable future and it may not achieve profitability.
Uber lost $3.03 billion in 2018 from operations.
The filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission revealed Uber had 91 million average monthly active users on its platforms, including for ride-hailing and Uber Eats, at the end of 2018.
This is up 33.8 percent from 2017, but growth slowed from 51 percent a year earlier.
Uber had not disclosed the latest user numbers before, and the figure indicates the scale of the business.
Although its user base includes customers of other services and ride-sharing, the number is nearly five times the 18.6 million announced by rival Lyft Inc. Uber in 2018 had $11.3 billion revenue, up around 42 percent over 2017, but below the 106 percent growth the prior year.
Uber set a placeholder amount of $1 billion but did not specify the size of the IPO.
Reuters reported this week that Uber plans to sell around $10 billion worth of stock at a valuation of between $90 billion and $100 billion.
Investment bankers had previously told Uber it could be worth as much as $120 billion.
Uber would be the largest initial public offering since that of Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba Group Holding Ltd in 2014, which raised $25 billion.
Although Uber is no longer targeting a $120 billion valuation in the IPO, some stock bonuses to Chief Executive Dara Khosrowshahi and other company executives are only triggered when that valuation is reached.
Uber will follow Lyft in going public.
Shares in its smaller rival closed at $61.01 on Thursday, 15 percent below its IPO price set late last month, a development which has sent a chilling signal for other tech start-ups looking to go public.
After making the public filing, Uber will begin a series of investor presentations, called a roadshow, which Reuters has reported will start the week of April 29.
The company is on track to price its IPO and begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange in early May.
ADVERSE EVENTS Uber faces questions over how it will navigate any transition toward self-driving vehicles, a technology seen as potentially dramatically lowering costs but which could also disrupt its business model.
FILE PHOTO: A photo illustration shows the Uber app on a mobile telephone, as it is held up for a posed photograph, in London, Britain November 10, 2017.
REUTERS/Simon Dawson Last year, the ride-hailing giant settled a legal dispute over trade secrets with Alphabet Incs Waymo self-driving vehicle unit.
Waymo, in its lawsuit, had said one of its former engineers who became chief of Ubers self-driving car project took with him thousands of confidential documents.
Uber revealed in the filing it could have to pay a license fee to Waymo or face a substantial delay to the development of its self-driving technology if the initial assessment of its technology by an independent expert is confirmed.
The expert, installed as part of Ubers settlement with Waymo, has identified on an interim basis certain functions in Ubers autonomous vehicle software that are problematic and other functions that are not, Uber said.
A Waymo spokesperson said: This review is on-going and we will continue to take the necessary steps to ensure our confidential information is not being used by Uber.
One advantage Uber will likely seek to play up to investors is that it is the largest player in many of the markets in which it operates.
Analysts consider building scale crucial for Ubers business model to become profitable.
In addition to answering questions about Ubers finances, CEO Khosrowshahi will be tasked with convincing investors that he has successfully changed the culture and business practices after a series of embarrassing scandals over the last two years.
Those have included sexual harassment allegations, a massive data breach that was concealed from regulators, use of illicit software to evade authorities and allegations of bribery overseas.
Khosrowshahi joined Uber in 2017 to replace company co-founder Travis Kalanick who was ousted as CEO.
Uber said in its filing its ridehailing position in the United States and Canada was significantly impacted by adverse publicity events and that its position in many markets has been threatened by discounts from other ride-hailing companies.
A #DeleteUber campaign surged on social media in 2017 after a public relations crisis, which Uber said in its filing meant hundreds of thousands of consumers stopped using its platform within days.
FILE PHOTO: The Uber Hub is seen in Redondo Beach, California, U.S., March 25, 2019.
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson Uber said its market share fell in most regions last year, although the rate of decline has slowed.
The company claims more than 65 percent market share in the United States and Canada, versus Lyfts stated 39 percent in the United States.
Uber is reserving some shares in the IPO for drivers who have completed 2,500 trips among other criteria.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Uber Technologies Incs restaurant delivery business has grown revenue to $1.5 billion in just three years, the company disclosed in its IPO filing on Thursday, dwarfing the revenue of its profitable, and already public, rival Grubhub Inc. A woman tries UberEats' application on a tablet at the launching event of food-delivery service UberEats in Tokyo, Japan, September 28, 2016.
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon Uber also spelled out the struggle its food delivery business faces: Cumulative payments to drivers for Uber Eats deliveries historically have exceeded the cumulative delivery fees paid by consumers, it said.
Uber Eats, and its rivals DoorDash and Postmates - who are also candidates for initial public offerings (IPOs) - are offering discounts and incentives to diners and restaurants in a race to grab the biggest piece of online restaurant delivery sales that investment firm William Blair & Co expects to grow to $62 billion in 2022 from around $25 billion today.
Uber said its take rate - or the percentage of revenue it keeps from each restaurant order - declined to 10 percent after it charged high-volume restaurant partners lower fees in competitive markets like the United States and India.
What you like to see is take rates going up not down, said Wedbush Securities analyst Ygal Arounian, who noted that fast-food giant McDonalds Corp is a key Uber Eats partner.
Research firm Edison Trends said Uber Eats does more deliveries than its U.S. rivals, including Grubhub, but that the dollar value of each transaction is the lowest of the bunch at $26.20.
That makes it harder to turn a profit in an industry where customers, restaurants and drivers bounce between delivery services.
Raising prices is not an option.
Consumers, as convenience-minded as they are, are still pretty price sensitive, said Jesse Reyes, chief executive of J-Curve Advisors, who advises venture capital and private equity funds.
Grubhub had established the beginnings of a profitability roadmap for the industry - even as some experts worry that it is losing share to its fast-growing Silicon Valley rivals.
The Chicago-based company merged with rival Seamless before its April 2014 IPO and since has made more than a half-dozen other purchases, including Yelp Incs Eat24, campus delivery firm Tapingo Ltd and LevelUP, which manages digital ordering, payments and loyalty programs.
It booked 2018 net income of $78.5 million on revenue of $1 billion.
Grubhubs U.S. restaurant partners pay an average commission rate of 20 percent.
Diners are charged nothing or up to a few dollars for deliveries, spokeswoman Katie Norris said.
The company also forged an exclusive partnership with KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut owner Yum Brands Inc, which took a $200 million stake in the Grubhub.
Experts say there will be more consolidation and failures as delivery firms look for ways to break away from the pack.
Its early days in this space and there is a lot that will shake out in the next couple of years, said Wedbush Securities analyst Arounian.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - SoftBank Group Corp has agreed to give up board seats and access to sensitive information, take a more passive role in startups and make other concessions to get government clearance for its technology deals in the United States.
FILE PHOTO: Sprint Executive Chairman Marcelo Claure testifies before a U.S. House Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee hearing in Washington, U.S. February 13, 2019.
Claure is now the chief operating officer of SoftBank Group Corp. REUTERS/Erin Scott/File Photo These maneuvers come as the Japanese investor confronts a new U.S. law aimed at cracking down on foreign investors.
SoftBanks investment style has made it a frequent visitor of a U.S. government group known as the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), charged with reviewing foreign investment for national security and competitive risks.
We know the deals are going to be reviewed, Marcelo Claure, chief operating officer of SoftBank Group Corp, said in an interview with Reuters this week.
We have abided by what the U.S. government wants.
SoftBank likes to take large stakes in companies working on artificial intelligence, data analytics, financial services and self-driving cars - technologies increasingly viewed as critical to national security.
This puts them in the crosshairs of a law signed by U.S. President Donald Trump last year expanding the powers of CFIUS.
Giving up board seats and access to private information would make SoftBank less of a threat in the eyes of CFIUS, giving its deals a better chance of approval.
We would not accept this if we were in the business of running companies, Claure said of the concessions.
Were not.
We are in the business of investing.
Claure declined to provide specifics on investments where SoftBank has had to make concessions or give up board seats and the U.S. government does not comment on CFIUS reviews.
The regulations have deterred many foreign investors from even attempting investment in U.S. tech companies.
Everything is a conversation with the government so you figure you are going to pick your battles, Claure said.
One regulatory battle SoftBank has chosen, so far, to sit out is regarding Uber Technologies Incs board seats.
As part of an $8 billion investment SoftBank closed in January 2018, which gave it a 16 percent stake in Uber and made it the largest shareholder, SoftBank was supposed to get two board seats.
SoftBank successfully completed its investment in Uber, but has not yet completed the formal CFIUS review necessary for the two board seats, Claure told Reuters.
As a result, more than a year later, Claure and Rajeev Misra, who oversees SoftBanks $100 billion Vision Fund, have not taken their board seats.
The result is that Uber on Thursday kicked off its initial public offering with a board of 12 directors, not the 17 members long ago agreed upon.
Another three independent directors cannot be appointed until after Misra and Claure join the board.
By the time Ubers shares start trading on the New York Stock Exchange in early May, SoftBank may have missed its opening.
When it becomes public, Ubers bylaws will change, erasing old agreements with its directors, according to Ubers IPO filing posted Thursday.
Claure said SoftBank may still follow through with seeking CFIUS approval, but added that it hasnt been a priority for us and SoftBank still has the access it wants to Ubers executives without the board seats.
BUILDING A TEAM OF LOBBYISTS After becoming chief operating officer in May of 2018, Claure increased SoftBanks presence and lobbying power in Washington.
The first job was to change the conversation with the U.S. government and explain to the U.S. government what is SoftBank, Claure said.
It hired former Ford Motor Co lobbyist Ziad Ojakli to improve relations with regulators.
SoftBank added a former White House staffer and a Department of Commerce deputy to its Washington staff last fall, and hired Jeffrey Dressler, previously a national security adviser to members of the U.S. Congress, as its national security policy director in January.
Even without board seats or more control in a company, SoftBank still wields a lot of influence.
SoftBank at times requires companies to meet performance goals before receiving money and generally prohibits founders and employees from selling their company shares.
Slideshow (2 Images) SoftBank last month unveiled a $5 billion fund to invest in technology companies in Latin America, where it will be well outside of CFIUS control.
Claure said SoftBank has already looked at more than 140 companies for possible investment and closed a few deals.
But Claure said SoftBank is not retreating from CFIUS.
We will find ways to invest in the United States, Claure said.
TOKYO/BENGALURU (Reuters) - Panasonic Corp and Tesla Inc will continue to make new investments in the U.S. electric carmakers Gigafactory as needed, but believe they can squeeze more out of existing resources than previously planned, Tesla said on Thursday.
The land of Tesla Gigafactory at a groundbreaking ceremony of Tesla Shanghai Gigafactory in Shanghai, China January 7, 2019.
REUTERS/Aly Song Separately, Panasonic said it was watching the demand situation in the electric car market before making any further investments in expanding the capacity of the Nevada plant.
The two companies were responding to a report by Japans Nikkei that said they had frozen previous plans to raise the capacity of the plant, which supplies battery packs for Tesla cars.
Both Tesla and Panasonic continue to invest substantial funds into Gigafactory, a Tesla spokesperson said.
That said, we believe there is far more output to be gained from improving existing production equipment than was previously estimated.
Giving no details of its sources, the Nikkei reported that financial issues had led the companies to rethink plans to expand the capacity of Gigafactory 1 by another 50 percent next year.
The business daily said the companies had already together invested $4.5 billion in the facility and had been planning to expand the plants capacity to the equivalent of 54 gigawatt hours (GWh) a year in 2020 from 35 GWh at present.
The 35 GWh capacity can produce batteries for about 500,000 electric vehicles a year, a source familiar with Teslas plans said, meaning that the previously planned expansion would have made the capacity enough for around 770,000 electric vehicles.
Panasonic established a battery production capacity of 35 GWh in Teslas Gigafactory 1 by the end of March 2019 in line with growing demand, Japan-based Panasonic said in an email.
Watching the demand situation, Panasonic will study additional investments over 35 GWh in collaboration with Tesla.
Neither company had made public their detailed future development plans for the site, although Panasonic said in October it was in talks to add to its investment and take capacity over the 35 GWh.
Tesla slid 2.8 percent on the Nasdaq Thursday, while Panasonic shares rose 2.6 percent in midday Tokyo trade Friday.
Panasonic shares have been dragged down by various Tesla woes, Masayuki Otani, chief market analyst at Securities Japan.
Turning cautious about further investments is good for Panasonic.
It helps the company reduce the influence of Tesla.
Panasonic is the exclusive battery cell supplier for Tesla, which in turn is Panasonics biggest electric vehicle battery client.
In February, Tesla said it had agreed to buy U.S. energy storage company Maxwell Technologies Inc, sending shares in Panasonic lower.
Tesla Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk also said in November the U.S. company would manufacture all its battery modules and packs at its new Shanghai factory and planned to diversify its sources.
The Nikkei report said Panasonic would also suspend its planned investment in Teslas new Shanghai plant and would instead provide technical support and a small number of batteries from the Gigafactory.
FILE PHOTO: A logo of Panasonic Corp is pictured at the CEATEC JAPAN 2017 (Combined Exhibition of Advanced Technologies) at the Makuhari Messe in Chiba, Japan, October 2, 2017.
REUTERS/Toru Hanai/File Photo The Japanese company said in October it would prioritize building additional capacity at the Gigafactory over China.
Lower-than-expected car deliveries by Tesla in the first quarter spooked stock and bond investors earlier this month, adding to Wall Streets concerns about its future cashflow.
Tesla is expected to report first-quarter earnings on April 24.
(Reuters) - Uber Technologies Incs initial public offering filing on Thursday contains data that will be key to selling itself to investors.
FILE PHOTO: Uber and Lyft signs are seen on a car in Redondo Beach, California, U.S., March 25, 2019.
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson The share sale follows a public offering by rival ride-sharing service Lyft Inc last month, whose shares have dropped to about $61 from an IPO price of $72.
Here are how the two companies compare on key metrics from Ubers filing: REVENUE Uber had $11.3 billion in 2018 vs Lyft $2.2 billion.
Ubers growth has been slowing relative to Lyft due to scandals and aggressive discounting by Lyft.
Lyfts revenue more than doubled between 2017 and 2018 while Ubers grew around 42 percent.
MARKET SHARE Uber has lost market share but remains the leader.
Uber has 65 percent share in North America while Lyft says it has 39 percent in the United States.
ADJUSTED EBITDA Both Uber and Lyft lose money though Uber has trimmed its losses in recent years.
Ubers adjusted loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization was just over $1.8 billion in 2018 compared to $2.6 billion in 2017.
Lyft lost $950 million in 2018 on the same basis.
MONTHLY ACTIVE USERS Uber has 91 million monthly active users compared to Lyfts 18.6 million.
Ubers number includes customers of additional services beyond ride sharing.
(The story corrects in Revenue section, corrects revenue growth rate for Uber)
(CNN) Just because it's on the internet doesn't make it true .
It seems so simple, but if everyone knew that, Facebook and Google wouldn't have to pull bogus news sites from their advertising algorithms and people wouldn't breathlessly share stories that claim Donald Trump is a secret lizard person or Hillary Clinton is an android in a pantsuit.
It doesn't have to be this way.
Fake news is actually really easy to spot -- if you know how.
Consider this your New Media Literacy Guide.
NOTE: As we put this together, we sought the input of two communications experts: Dr. Melissa Zimdars , an associate professor at Merrimack College in Massachusetts whose dynamic list of unreliable news sites has gone viral, and Alexios Mantzarlis , the head of theat the Poynter Institute.
This one is tough, because satire doesn't pretend to be real and serves a purpose as commentary or entertainment.
But if people are not familiar with a satire site, they can share the news as if it is legitimate.
The shocking or teasing headlines of these stories trick you into clicking for more information -- which may or may not live up to what was promised.
A type of misleading news, this may be an interpretation of a real news event where the facts are manipulated to fit an agenda.
These are the hardest to debunk, because they often contain a kernel of truth: A fact, event or quote that has been taken out of context.
Look for sensational headlines that aren't supported by the information in the article.
These are the easiest to debunk and often come from known sham sites that are designed to look like real news outlets.
They may include misleading photographs and headlines that, at first read, sound like they could be real.
First, know the different types of misleading and false news "People think this [thinking] applies only for older people," she told CNN.
"I think even early education should be teaching about communication, media and the internet.
Growing up with the internet doesn't necessarily mean you're internet savvy."
Melissa Zimdars points out that even those who spend a lot of time online aren't immune to fake content.
"If we were a little slower to share and re-tweet content purely based on the headline, we'd go a good way towards combating flasehoods," he told CNN.
Alexios Mantzarlis trains fact-checkers for a living.
He says it's important to have a "healthy amount of skepticism" and to think, really think, before sharing a piece of news.
For starters, here are 10 questions you should ask if something looks fake: 1.
Does the story come from a strange URL?
Zimdars says sites with strange suffixes like ".co" or ".su," or that are hosted by third party platforms like WordPress should raise a red flag.
Some fake sites, like National Report, have legitimate-sounding, if not overly general names that can easily trick people on social sites.
For instance, several fake reports from abcnews.com.co have gone viral before being debunked, including a June article that claimed President Obama signed an order banning assault weapon sales.
2.
Does the headline match the information in the article?
Mantzarlis says one of the biggest reasons bogus news spreads on Facebook is because people get sucked in by a headline and don't bother to click through.
Just this week, several dubious organizations circulated a story about Pepsi CEO Indra Nooyi.
"Pepsi STOCK Plummets After CEO Tells Trump Supporters to 'Take Their Business Elsewhere'," trumpeted one such headline.
However, the articles themselves didn't contain that quote nor evidence that Pepsi's stock saw a significant drop (it didn't).
Nooyi did make recorded comments about Trump's election, but was never quoted telling his supporters to "take their business elsewhere."
3.
Is it a recent story, or an old one that has been re-purposed?
Sometimes legitimate news stories can be twisted and resurrected years after the fact to create a false conflation of events.
Mantzarlis recalls an erroneous story that actually cited a legitimate piece of news from CNNMoney.
A blog called Viral Liberty recently reported that Ford had moved production of some of their trucks from Mexico to Ohio because of Donald Trump's election win.
The story quickly caught fire online -- after all, it seemed like a great win for the domestic auto industry.
It turns out, Ford did move some manufacturing from Mexico to Ohio -- in 2015 .
It had nothing to do with the election results at all.
4.
Are the supporting videos or photos verifiable?
Photos and videos can also be taken out of context to support a false claim.
In April, the liberal site Occupy Democrats posted a video that purportedly showed a young woman getting removed from a bathroom by police for not looking feminine enough.
This was during the height of the HB2 "bathroom bill" controversy, and the article clearly linked the two.
"IT BEGINS," read the headline.
However, there was no date on the video or evidence that it was shot in North Carolina, where the "bathroom bill" was to be passed.
In fact, according to Snopes , the same video was published to a Facebook page in 2015, meaning it predated the HB2 controversy.
5.
Does the article cite primary sources?
It's not just political news that can be bogus.
Now8News is one of the most infamous fake-but-looks-real site, specializing in the kind of weird news stories that often go viral.
One such article claims Coca-Cola recalled Dasani water bottles after a "clear parasite" was found in the water.
There was even an accompanying gross-out picture that allegedly showed the parasite, though some basic Googling reveals it is most likely a photo of a young eel Regardless, the article had no statement or claim from any company.
Clearly this would be a big story.
Dasani or any number of consumer advocacy groups would publish statements or news releases about it, right?
There are none to be found -- because the story is 100% fake.
6.
Does the story feature quotes, and are they traceable?
A favorite meme of Liberal Facebook groups features a fake quote from Donald Trump that is allegedly from a People Magazine interview in 1998: "If I were to run, I'd run as a Republican.
They're the dumbest group of voters in the country.
They believe anything on Fox News.
I could lie and they'd still eat it up.
I bet my numbers would be terrific."
quote is nowhere to be found in them.
This one is easily debunked if you take even a moment to think about it : People.com has extensive archives, and thisin them.
7.
Is it the only outlet reporting the story?
During this election season, Pope Francis was roped into three super viral, and completely false, stories.
According to various (fake) websites, the Pope endorsed three US Presidential candidates: First, Bernie Sanders, as "reported" by National Report and USAToday.com.co.
Then, Donald Trump, as "reported" by fake news site WTOE 5 News.
Finally, another fake news site KYPO6.com reported he had endorsed Hillary Clinton!
In all of these instances, subsequent reports all circled back to the fake ones.
It's always good to trace a story back to the original source, and if you find yourself in a loop -- or if they all lead back to the same dubious site -- you have reason to doubt.
8.
Is your own bias getting in the way?
Both Zimdars and Mantzarlis say confirmation bias is a big reason fake news speads like it does.
Some of that is built into Facebook's algorithm -- the more you like or interact with a certain interest, the more Facebook will show you related to that interest.
Similarly, if you hate Donald Trump, you are more likely to think negative stories about Donald Trump are true, even if there is no evidence.
"We seek out information that already fits with our established beliefs," says Zimdars.
"If we come into contact with information we don't agree with, it still may reaffirm us because we will attempt to find faults."
So if you find an outrageous article that feels "too good to be true," use caution: It just might be.
9.
Has it been debunked by a reputable fact-checking organization?
you're getting the real deal.
View the whole list here.
Did you know there is actually an International Fact-Checking Network (which Mantzarlis leads)?
And that it has a code of principles?
The code includes the ideals of nonpartisanship and transparency, among others.
Sites like FactCheck.org, Snopes and Politifact abide by this code, so if you see a debunking there, you know 10.
Is the host on a list of unreliable news websites?
things can get tricky.
There's obviously a big difference between "misleading" news, which is usually based in fact, and "fake" news, which is just fiction disguised as fact.
This is where.
There's obviously a big difference between "misleading" news, which is usually based in fact, and "fake" news, which is just fiction disguised as fact.
Zimdars' now-famous list covers both kinds, as well as satire and sites that capitalize on clickbait-type headlines.
Snopes also maintains a list While Zimdars is glad her list has gotten so much attention, she also cautions that completely writng off some of the sites as "fake" is not accurate.
"I want to make sure this list doesn't do a great disservice to the ultimate goal," she says.
"It's interesting that some of the headlines [about my list] are just as hyperbolic as the ones I am analyzing."
Georgia McCafferty , CNN Written by The winners of this year's "Oscars of watchmaking" have been chosen, with a wide range of time pieces recognized for their engineering perfection and eye-catching design.
An industry jury chose the world's best watches in fifteen different categories including sports, jewellery and travel time watch, with the awards presented by the Grand Prix d'Horlogerie de Genve (GPHG) in Geneva earlier this month.
The grand prize for the world's best watch, the Aiguille d'Or Grand Prix, was awarded to the Chronomtre Ferdinand Berthoud FB 1 from Ferdinand Berthoud.
This limited-edition white gold and titanium time piece, which retails for more than $200,000, has a leather strap and is powered by a hand-wound movement comprised of more than 1,120 components.
The Public Prize, chosen by votes submitted internationally online and at select international watch exhibitions, was awarded to the 33 bis Quai des Bergues by Czapek Genve.
The winning watches were shown in Seoul, Rome and Geneva before they arrived in Dubai on November 15 for their final hurrah at Dubai Watch Week Watches from Audemars Piguet, Montblanc, MB&F, Piaget, TAG Heuer and Tudor brands, along with Chanel, Eberhard & Co, Faberg and Grnefeld, were also honored by this year's 27-person international jury.
Check out the gallery above to see the full list of this years winners.
Story highlights Driverless electric racer completes successful track test in Marrakech, Morocco Planned Roborace series will see autonomous cars compete at Formula E ePrix weekends (CNN) It is a car kitted out with technology its developers boldly predict will transform our cities and change the way we live.
The autonomous "DevBot #1" took a giant leap forward in Morocco recently, making its debut on a street track at the Formula E Marrakech ePrix The battery-powered prototype is being tested for Roborace -- a proposed race series where driverless cars will compete on temporary city circuits.
"It's the first time we've run the Devbot in driverless mode on a Formula E track in the middle of a city street," Roborace's Justin Cooke told CNN.
"It's so exciting for the team who put hours and hours of work in.
These guys were up to 1-2 a.m. in the morning developing a technology that no one else in the world is able to do at this speed and in these complicated environments."
Read More
Tampa, Florida (CNN) When it comes to piloting a plane, I have zero experience.
In fact, I've never even considered attempting it.
Nevertheless, as we swoop over Florida's Tampa Bay on a gorgeous November morning, I enthusiastically take over the controls of the ICON A5, a two-seater amphibious plane that looks like a sports car, maneuvers like a jet ski and is so intuitive, the company says that even a novice can learn to fly it in less than 30 hours.
At 23 feet long and weighing in a 1,510 pounds, it's known as a sea light-sport aircraft.
Designed to help you focus on the freedom of flying without worrying if the plane will react unpredictably, there's nothing else quite like it on the market.
Now that I'm in control, my whole body tenses for a good five minutes.
Am I really ready to pilot this shiny new machine all by myself?
I'm not entirely sure.
However, I take comfort in the fact that the A5 was built specifically for people like me, and it was designed to drive like a car.
Plus, the fact that Icon's CEO and founder, Kirk Hawkins, is next to me in the cockpit doesn't hurt either.
He can take over the controls at any time.
So far, so good.
We glide smoothly through the air at about 1,000 feet, and I'm comfortable enough to take in the sights.
Lovely Fort De Soto Park doesn't disappoint.
l e v a r t Squiggles of dreamy white dunes are surrounded by water that looks like it should be in the Caribbean.
The Sunshine Skyway Bridge, with its series of long-spanning cables, is equally impressive.
The adrenaline is still racing.
And as most surreal experiences go, it just keeps getting better.
For starters, there's another ICON A5 to my left, which is thrilling in itself.
We are flying in formation, and my job is to mimic its movements.
You'd think this would be intimidating, but it's not.
It's just plain fun.
That's music to Hawkins' ears.
He's the brains behind this newfangled plane, an idea 10 years in the making.
As a former Air Force F-16 pilot and a Stanford Business School grad, he has focused most of his adult life on making sport flying available to the masses.
"The idea for us was to create an airplane where the average human being can go out and experience the world without having the burden of becoming a professional pilot," he says.
So it makes sense that the dashboard looks like what you see in your car.
There are only a few gauges that I don't recognize.
"It's the Apple approach to things," he says.
"You humanize it, and make it intuitive and easy and cool."
He's so confident people will want to fly (and buy) his planes that he just opened a flight-training facility at Peter O. Knight Airport.
Located on Davis Island, five minutes from downtown Tampa, it's a place where both beauty and sailboats abound.
The company's other training center is in Vacaville, California, where ICON is headquartered.
Wide eyes and open windows By 9 a.m., it's time for a brief water-landing pitstop.
Hawkins takes over the controls.
I've been too busy learning to fly in formation (not something non-pilots get to try very often) and interviewing Hawkins to even think about learning to do a water landing myself.
It's something Hawkins tells me most people can master in about 30 minutes.
A few negative-Gs and 360-degree turns later and it becomes a fun roller-coaster ride in the sky.
Plus, it's an open-air flight, so I occasionally flop my arms out.
Just because I can.
At a few hundred feet above the water, it's easy to spot a boater waving at us, a flock of pelicans and even stingrays.
"We're gonna pull over here and stop and get out for a second," he says.
Surely he's kidding, right?
But after landing the plane on the water, he takes off his seatbelt, and I realize he's not.
Seconds later, he pops the roof and we climb onto the wings, which could easily double as diving boards.
Suddenly, this feels less like a plane outing and more like I'm on a boat sunbathing.
Everything is drenched in a mesmerizing golden hue.
I can imagine picnicking on the beach nearby.
Or taking the plane somewhere for a remote weekend camping trip.
Because the plane has a range of about 430 miles on a full tank, it's made for short getaways.
"This entire thing is about inspiring people," he explains.
"Once you learn to fly, you will never be the same.
You will look at the sky different, you will look at the planet different."
Designed to make flying simple "The primary motor skills for operating a plane are pretty easy," Hawkins tells me.
"We have people landing by themselves with an instructor on their very first day, within 30 minutes."
That said, they've painstakingly taken the time to design it for safety.
The goal of the spin-resistant airframe feature is that if the pilot makes mistakes, the airplane doesn't lose control.
As a backup, there's a complete airplane parachute.
"The spin resistance feature is a big deal as it's the first airplane that the FAA has deemed spin-resistant," says Chris Dupin, a flight instructor and US Air Force officer.
"A significant number of general aviation fatalities are from loss of control accidents that involve an unrecovered spin on the base to final turn."
Plus, there's the angle of attack indicator, something you don't typically see in a light aircraft.
It shows you where the wing is happy (in the green) or where it could stall (in the red).
The pilot's job is to keep the wing within the green or yellow section of the gauge.
This is part of what makes water takeoffs and landings so easy to learn.
Becoming a barnstormer "Kirk Hawkins has an extremely creative and innovative idea for pilot training that is more intuitive; teaching the feel of flight first and the principals and structure later, not unlike how people learn to drive," says Christine Negroni, veteran aviation journalist and author of "The Crash Detectives."
"The world is facing a pilot shortage, so the idea of teaching differently, so that different learning styles can be accommodated could very well expand the pool of pilot candidates."
On that note, about 40% of the folks who've put down deposits for the ICON A5 are not pilots, which means this plane is drawing aviation newbies.
After an hour and a half of flying time, Hawkins lands us on the airport runway, a maneuver that you can tackle after you've mastered several water landings.
It's a bit trickier since it requires more precision and knowledge about crosswinds.
At this point, if I owned this plane, I'd hook it up to a trailer, fold the wings up, drive it home, and park it in the garage.
Get some air time If you want your own ICON A5, get in line.
More than 1,800 customers have put deposits down.
For those who aren't ready to shell out $207,000 to buy one, there's the option of stopping by ICON's training facility in Tampa, or the facility in Vacaville, California, to fly for the day.
Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 Crowds in Fremantle, Australia, look at the supermoon on Monday, November 14.
NASA scientists say the moon is brighter than it has appeared at any point in the last 68 years.
Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The moon rises over Victoria Harbour in Hong Kong on November 14.
A supermoon occurs when the moon becomes full on the same days as its perigee, which is the point in the moon's orbit when it is closest to Earth.
Supermoons generally appear to be 14% bigger and 30% brighter than other full moons.
Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The moon appears over the Binhe Yellow River Bridge in Yinchuan, China, on November 14.
Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 Evergreen trees are silhouetted on the mountain top as a supermoon rises over a ranch in Silverthorne, Colorado, on November 14.
Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The supermoon is seen behind the Soyuz spacecraft at the Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on November 14.
Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The supermoon is seen in Beijing on November 14.
Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 A man rides a horse past people watching the supermoon in Chennai, India, on November 14.
Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The supermoon rises behind the Propylaea above the Ancient Acropolis hill in Athens, Greece, on November 14.
Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The supermoon is seen above a statue in Vienna, Austria, on November 14.
Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The moon rises behind the Almodovar castle in Cordoba, Spain, on Sunday, November 13.
Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 The supermoon appears behind the MesseTurm tower in Frankfurt, Germany, on November 13.
Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Brightest supermoon since 1948 A passenger plane passes in front of the moon, as seen from Whittier, California, on November 13.
Hide Caption 12 of 13
Story highlights Shane Kimbrough is a NASA astronaut He voted in the 2016 election (CNN) From infinity and beyond, he found a way to vote.
Shane Kimbrough, a NASA astronaut currently living on board the International Space Station, filed his ballot in Tuesday's presidential election, according to a Tumblr post by NASA NASA told Yahoo News that Kimbrough filed his ballot in the 2016 election from the space station sometime over the past few days.
For astronauts who will be in space on Election Day, the voting process starts a year before launch.
At that time, they are able to select the elections in which they want to participate.
Then, six months before the election, astronauts are provided with the form "Voter Registration and Absentee Ballot Request -- Federal Post Card Application."
Image Kjell Lindgren released on social media of the US flag floating in the Cupola module.
Read More
Story highlights Africa will launch its first private satellite into space It's been built by schoolgirls (CNN) They may be teenagers, but 17-year-old Brittany Bull and 16-year-old Sesam Mngqengqiswa have grand ambitions -- to launch Africa's first private satellite into space in 2019.
They are part of a team of high school girls from Cape Town, South Africa, who have designed and built payloads for a satellite that will orbit over the earth's poles scanning Africa's surface.
Once in space, the satellite will collect information on agriculture, and food security within the continent.
Using the data transmitted, "we can try to determine and predict the problems Africa will be facing in the future", explains Bull, a student at Pelican Park High School.
South Africa's program aims to encourage girls into STEM, particularly astronomy.
Less than 10% of young women are interested in STEM subjects.
"Where our food is growing, where we can plant more trees and vegetation and also how we can monitor remote areas," she says.
"We have a lot of forest fires and floods but we don't always get out there in time."
Read More
(CNN) A six-month stay on the International Space Station can be a pain in the back for astronauts.
While they may gain up to 2 inches in height temporarily, that effect is accompanied by a weakening of the muscles supporting the spine, according to a new study .
Astronauts have been reporting back pain since the late 1980s, when space missions grew longer.
Their flight medical data show that more than half of US astronauts have reported back pain, especially in their lower backs.
Up to 28% indicated that it was moderate to severe pain, sometimes lasting the duration of their mission.
Things don't improve when they return to Earth's gravity.
In the first year after their mission, astronauts have a 4.3 times higher risk of a herniated disc.
"It's sort of an ongoing problem that has been a significant one with cause for concern," said Dr. Douglas Chang, first author of the new study and associate professor of orthopedic surgery and chief of physical medicine and rehabilitation service at University of California San Diego Health.
"So this study is the first to take it from just an epidemiological description and look at the possible mechanisms for what is going on with the astronauts' backs."
Like being in a body cast Much attention has been focused on intervertebral discs, the spongy shock absorbers that sit between our vertebrae, as the culprit for the back issues that astronauts face.
But the new study runs counter to that thinking.
In this research, funded by NASA, Chang's team observed little to no changes in the discs, their height or swelling.
What they did observe in six astronauts who spent four to seven months on the ISS was a tremendous degeneration and atrophying of the supporting musculature in the lumbar (lower) spine, Chang said.
These muscles are the ones that help us stay upright, walk and move our upper extremities in an environment like Earth, while protecting discs and ligaments from strain or injury.
In microgravity, the torso lengthens, most likely due to spinal unloading, in which the spinal curvature flattens.
Astronauts also aren't using the muscle tone in their lower backs because they aren't bending over or using their lower backs to move, like on Earth, Chang said.
This is where the pain and stiffening occurs, much like if the astronauts were in a body cast for six months.
MRI scans before and after the missions revealed that the astronauts experienced a 19% decrease in these muscles during their flight.
"Even after six weeks of training and reconditioning here one Earth, they are only getting about 68% of their losses restored," Chang explained.
Chang and his team consider this a serious issue for long-term manned missions, especially when considering a trip to Mars that could take eight or nine months just to reach the Red Planet.
That trip, and the astronauts' potential time spent in Martian gravity -- 38% of the surface gravity on Earth -- creates the potential for muscle atrophy and deconditioning.
The team's future research will also look at reported neck issues, where there can be even more occurrences of muscle atrophy and a slower recovery period.
They are also hoping to partner with another university on inflight ultrasounds of the spine, to look at what happens to astronauts while they are on the space station.
Yoga in space?
Because nobody likes back pain and muscle loss, Chang suggested countermeasures that should be added to the already two- to three-hour workout astronauts have on the space station each day.
Though their exercise machines focus on a range of issues including cardiovascular and skeletal health, the team believes that space travelers also need to include a core-strenghtening program focused on the spine.
In addition to the "fetal tuck" position astronauts use in microgravity to stretch their lower back or alleviate back pain, Chang suggested yoga.
But he knows that is easier said than done.
"A lot of yoga depends on the effects of gravity, like downward dog, where a stretch through the hamstring, calf muscles, back of the neck and shoulders are possible because of gravity.
When you remove that, you may not have the same benefit."
Any machines on the space station also have to be designed with regards to weight, size and even the reverberations they could produce on the station.
Scott Parazynski, who walked in space seven times, assisted with construction on the space station in 2007.
Chang and the other researchers brainstormed with a virtual reality team about different exercise programs that would enable astronauts to invite friends, family or even Twitter followers to join them in a virtual workout, making the daily repetition of their workouts more fun and competitive.
One of Chang's teammates has felt this pain personally.
Dr. Scott Parazynski is the only astronaut to summit Mount Everest.
He experienced a herniated disc after returning from the ISS to Earth.
Less than a year later, when he attempted to climb Everest the first time, he had to be airlifted off.
After a rehabilitation process, he eventually made the summit.
Now, he speaks to current astronauts about the ways they can contribute to studies about their health in microgravity.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Keeping the astronauts healthy and fit is the least they can do, Chang said.
"When a crew comes back, they say on one side of the space station, they see this beautiful blue planet," he said.
"Everything they hold dear to them is on this fragile little planet.
And they look out the other window and just see infinity stretching off into the blackness, and they come back with a different sense of themselves and their place in the universe.
"All of them are committed to furthering space knowledge and making incremental steps forward in any way they can for the next crew."
(CNN) "Attention!
Attention!"
blares the Russian voice from a loudspeaker.
"The nuclear bombs will be launched in one hour."
Inside a room styled as a Soviet-era nuclear bunker, a couple of Russians race to prevent a catastrophic strike on the United States.
Their quest -- the latest craze in Moscow -- is to find the nuclear launch codes and deactivate a hidden red button, which has already been pressed by a mad Russian general.
It's complete fantasy; just an interactive game hosted in a building in a former industrial area of the city, harking back to the fears of the Cold War.
But amid the current tensions with Russia, in which potential nuclear confrontation with the West has again been raised, it feels a little unsettling.
A mad Russian general has pushed the nuclear button - and gamers must stop missiles launching "I'm worried because there is very stupid information from both sides," said Maxim Motin, a Russian who has just completed the Red Button Quest game.
"I know that normal people all over the world don't want any war," he added.
A nation preparing for conflict But Russian officials have been preparing the nation for the possibility of conflict, stoking deep-seated concerns about a standoff with the West, Russia's old Cold War rival.
Russian television has been broadcasting a mass training exercise, involving up to 40 million people across the country.
It is designed to prepare responses, the government says, for a chemical or nuclear attack.
The Russian Emergency Situations Ministry issued this picture from a nationwide civil defense drill The video shows emergency workers with protective suits and gas masks leading the civil defense rehearsal, the biggest of its kind since the collapse of the Soviet Union.
It suggests the Kremlin wants Russians to take the threat of war very seriously.
Of course, all-out conflict between Russia and the West remains highly unlikely.
Analysts say the principle of Mutually Assured Destruction -- or MAD -- still holds as a deterrent, just as it did during the Cold War.
But with tensions growing over Syria, Ukraine, and the Baltic states, analysts say a small risk of contact, misunderstanding and escalation between the nuclear superpowers has become very real.
"I don't think nuclear war is likely," says Fyodor Lukyanov, editor of Russia in Global Affairs , a prominent foreign policy journal.
"But when two nuclear superpowers are operating with their military machines in the same area, very close to each other and they don't have proper coordination, any unintended thing can happen," he told CNN.
Kremlin playing up fears It is a risk the Kremlin seems keen to play up, with state television upping its hardline rhetoric in recent weeks.
In its flagship current affairs show, Russia's top state news anchor, Dmitry Kiselyev -- dubbed the Kremlin's propagandist-in-chief by critics -- recently issued a stark warning of global war if Russian and US forces clash in Syria.
"Brutish behavior towards Russia could have nuclear dimensions," he declared.
The Russian defense ministry has also released details of the latest intercontinental ballistic missile being added to its nuclear arsenal.
The Satan 2 , as it's known, will be the world's most destructive weapon, guaranteeing Russia's place as a top nuclear power.
It is an apocalyptic vision that adds a further sense of realism to the fantasy quest being acted out by gamers in Moscow.
"I know that now in schools in Russia they tell the children that our main enemy is the US," said Alisa Sokoleva, another Moscow gamer.
"But it sounds ridiculous to me and I'm totally sure that war is impossible," she adds.
The quest game players - pretending to be a special ops team - are the only ones who can avert war Back in the fake Cold War bunker, the Russian gamers have cracked the launch codes and deactivated the missile launch.
The United States, it seems, has again been saved from this virtual Russian nuclear attack.
Hopefully, the real world will be spared such a confrontation too.
Thinking about treating your family to a little virtual reality this holiday?
Have no idea where to start?
Don't worry.
From Google's inexpensive Cardboard VR viewer to Sony's new PlayStation VR, this guide will help you figure out what makes sense for your family's interests, needs, and budget.
Here are your options if you want to dip your toe in the water, wade knee-deep, or really swim with the VR big fish.
Keep in mind, virtual reality is a quickly changing technology, so always check out the companies' websites, professional reviews on sites like CNET , and user reviews before you take the leap.
Virtual Reality Viewers: Best for Families with Young Kids Virtual reality viewers are inexpensive, handheld devices that offer three-dimensional views and the feeling of being in a different place.
The viewers' lenses work by extending the depth of static images or animation but do not allow you to interact with your environment.
To use them, download any app labeled "VR" in either iTunes or Google Play, launch the app, and insert your smartphone into the viewer.
Most viewers use your phone's button or another basic input to control the action.
Key features Inexpensive Compatible with most smartphones and iOS or Android apps labeled "VR" (except for the View-Master, which uses specially designed apps) More like a 3D movie than true VR Best for educational content and games Products in this category Literally made of cardboard, this handheld device that you put together yourself is a fun, novel way of experiencing virtual reality.
Use with any smartphone and iOS or Android VR apps.
Google offers lots of different viewers, including the steampunk-looking Google Tech C-1 Glass VR Viewer ($14.99).
This is a comfortable viewer with adjustable lenses, a head strap, and an easy-to-use trigger input.
Comes with a cardboard, handheld motion-controller that adds some oomph to games.
Works with most smartphones and any iOS or Android VR apps.
Geared for learning rather than gaming, the View-Master is available in a range of packages that let you explore dinosaurs, space, wildlife, and more.
Each pack includes insertable picture reels (your phone provides the horsepower).
Works with most smartphones and specially designed View-Master iOS or Android apps.
VR Headsets: Best for Big Kids and Tweens Moving up in price and features are VR headsets.
They're similar to viewers in that you download VR apps from the app store and insert your phone in them.
Headsets work with the exact same apps as the viewers (except for the Samsung Gear VR and Google Daydream Viewbut give you a more immersive experience.
The advantages of headsets are that they're more comfortable to wear for a longer time, they fit better (preventing light leaks), they have better lenses, and they often have earphone ports.
That's why some people like to use them to view videos.
They don't make the videos three-dimensional, but they provide a personal-movie-theater-type experience.
They also typically have built-in game controllers on the headset itself or work with handheld controllers, giving you more options in apps than you would have with a simple viewer.
Key features Pricier than viewers Compatible with most smartphones (except the Samsung Gear VR and Google Daydream View) and iOS or Android apps labeled "VR" More believable, you-are-there experience, but limited ability to interact with your environment Good for games, educational content, and movie viewing Headsets have minimum age requirements set by the manufacturers; check the age before you buy.
Products in this category This big purple headset is made of flexible foam and has audio ports and dual input buttons for easy game control.
Works with most iOS and Android VR apps.
Made of fabric, this lightweight plush headset is designed specifically for Google's brand-new Daydream VR platform.
The platform includes Daydream-compatible phones (such as the company's Pixel phone), apps, and controllers.
Daydream View comes with a controller and the company says there will be 50 apps at launch , including games, educational content, and streaming services.
Designed exclusively for Samsung phones, the Gear VR includes an input pad on the side of the headset and works with bluetooth controllers, both of which let you navigate games easily.
Works with Gear VR-compatible games (including Minecraft Gear VR Edition).
Individually adjustable lenses, a snug fit, and a smartphone tray you can customize to your phone make the Kix a good option for quality VR on any smartphone.
Works with most iOS and Android VR apps.
Consoles: Best for 12 and Up Right now, the only VR gaming console is offered by Sony.
The company's just-in-time-for-the-holidays PlayStation VR headset works with the PlayStation 4.
If you don't have a PS4 already, you could buy the PlayStation 4 Slim or a PlayStation 4 Pro (also brand-new for the holidays) and the PSVR.
The headset plus the horsepower provided by the console provides an immersive, interactive VR experience.
Key features Expensive Limited to Sony PlayStation Games tend to be mature but plentiful, including Batman Arkham VR, 100ft Robot Golf, Final Fantasy XV VR, Battlezone, and Resident Evil 7.
Products in this category Includes everything you need to turn your PS4 into a VR machine, including a headset, a camera, two motion controllers, a game, and cables.
A newly redesigned, slimmer version of the PS4, this one has improved graphics, a lighted controller, and runs quieter.
Better graphics, faster action, and optimized to work better with specific "Pro-Enhanced" games Super-powerful headsets: Best for Teens You may have heard of the ominous-sounding Oculus Rift and HTC Vive.
These are the ultra-powerful VR headsets that provide a fully immersive experience; some call it "the Holodeck" in reference to the alternate reality from Star Trek.
Both require high-end, powerful PCs (which cost upwards of $500).
Key features Super expensive Require compatible games (for example, Everest VR is a Vive exclusive) and high-powered computers Full interactivity with your environment Games tend to be mature, including The Assembly and Deus Ex Mankind Divided.
Best for families with teens; Oculus Rift's manufacturer age minimum is 13; Valve states the Vive is "not for children."
Products in this category Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Offers a "room-scale experience."
If your kids play on the Steam gaming network, they've certainly seen ads for the HTC Vive, as it's made by the same company, Valve, that owns Steam.
Steam is offering some Vive-only games designed to take advantage of this headsets' unique capabilities.
Comes with everything to make VR a reality -- except the computer: a headset, a sensor, a remote, cables, an Xbox controller, and a game.
(CNN) What do Discman, Tamagotchi, and Game Boy have in common?
They're all landmark Japanese inventions from the 80s and 90s, symbols of an era when the Asian nation was a world leader in tech innovation.
But with the rise of Silicon Valley, and American tech giants such as Google and Apple, has seen Japan produce less era-defining tech over the past two decades.
That, says Professor Masahiko Tsukamoto, of Kobe University's Graduate School of Engineering , is about to change thanks to a new generation of young entrepreneurs, an uptick in international collaborations, and new partnerships with university scientists.
Japan's focus this time around is not on smart phones or gaming, but wearable chairs, smart glasses and dog communication devices.
In short, wacky wearable tech.
Wearable tech in Japan In 2013, Japan sold 530,000 units of wearable tech devices, according to Yano Research Institute That figure is predicted to leapfrog to 13.1 million units in 2017.
Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Apple Watch The Apple Watch , which will be available in April, can receive phone calls and send messages like an iPhone.
It can also track fitness data and even pull up emails and some apps, including CNN.
Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Google Glass Google Glass is an augmented-reality headset that can take photos and videos, provide navigation and keep track of reservations and bookings.
Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Ralph Lauren Polo Tech Shirt Wear this shirt, and information tracking your activity, breathing and cardiac rates is streamed to your smartphone and tablet via Bluetooth.
Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Hush smart earplugs Developed as the world's first smart earplugs, Hush claims to filter unwelcome sounds while allowing important phone calls and alarms to intrude.
Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel 1Voice beanie The 1Voice beanie is a warm, wireless way to listen to music.
Bluetooth headphones built into the knit hat stream music from your device.
Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Yelp Monocle augmented reality apps Yelp Monocle overlays the real-world view through your mobile device's camera with labeled restaurants, shops, bars, landmarks and attractions.
Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: From geek to chic: Wearable technology for 2015 travel Flight Tonight: Last-minute bookings Next year will see more apps like Flight Tonight and Hotel Tonight, which minimize planning and make it faster and easier to travel on a whim.
Hide Caption 7 of 7 -- at launch, it was the largest wearable tech fair in the world with 103 exhibitors.
Perhaps the best indication of the boom in this industry was the introduction of Tokyo's first Wearable Expo in 2015-- at launch, it was the largest wearable tech fair in the world with 103 exhibitors.
It has featured electronic kimonos, cat communication devices, and electronic gloves to record a pianist's finger work.
At the next show, from January 18 to 20, 2017, the organizers expect more than 200 exhibitors and 19,000 visitors.
"With better functionality, lighter components and smaller designs, wearing devices is now no longer a fantasy," says show director Yuhi Maezono.
"Wearables are gathering attention as the next big growth market."
The dog whisperer Inupathy is a dog harness slated to launch at the end of this year that will allow pet owners to communicate with their dogs.
As well as a heart monitor, the harness features noise-canceling technology which can isolate the animal's heartbeat and track its reactions to stimulus, such as food, games, people and toys.
With this data, the harness assesses a dog's mood and changes color to inform the owners.
Equipped with six LED lights, the collar glows blue to show calm, red for excitement, and displays a rainbow theme for happiness.
Joji Yamaguchi, CEO of Inupathy, was inspired by his Corgi, Akane, who was a nervous puppy.
To better understand the dog's anxiety, the biologist developed Inupathy to monitor his heart rate.
Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out The dogs who participated in a MRI study about language processing, listen attentively to their trainer, Mrta Gcsi.
Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out Two dogs participate in a MRI training session, in which they learn how to remain still while in the machine.
Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out The trained dogs sit around the MRI scanner and listen to their trainer.
Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out A dog waits to be measured in the MRI machine as part of the study.
The dog can pull out of the machine at any time.
Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out A dog, named Barack, is lying on the MRI scanner bed during the study.
Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out Researchers Attila Andics (on left) and Anna Gbor (on right) sit with the dog, Barack, during the study.
Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out Anna Gbor (on left), Attila Andics, and Mrta Gcsi (on right) -- all researchers at Etvs Lornd University -- work around the MRI scanner during the study.
Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: How do dogs process language?
Scientists scan their brains to find out Barack's proud owner gives him praise after he completes a successful brain scanning session.
Hide Caption 8 of 8 "I always felt like I couldn't understand Akane very well and I wanted to get be closer to him," says Yamaguchi.
"Buddhism and old Japanese religion says every animals, plants, and even rocks have spirit inside.
It's stressful when you can't solve problems that are upsetting them."
Yamaguchi expects wearable wellness tracking will have applications for humans, too.
"Personalization, of artificial intelligence will be a game-changer," says Yamaguchi.
"For instance, if you show a certain behavior before you start feeling depressed, predicting your depression from that behavior is extremely valuable for an individual.
An AI that works personally for you will eventually make this possible."
A real life-saver Archelis -- a wearable chair launched in Japan this year -- is also creating a buzz internationally.
A collaboration between Nitto mold factory, Chiba University, Japan Polymer Technology and Hiroaki Nishimura Design, in Japan, it was initially intended for surgeons, who need to rest their legs during long operations.
The chair enables its wearer to effectively sit down and stand up at the same time.
The Archelis chair.
"The Archelis concept is very simple, like the simplicity of Columbus' egg," says Dr Hiroshi Kawahira, the surgeon behind the concept.
"Long surgeries can result in back pain, neck pain, and knee pain -- especially for surgeons who are older."
Made of 3D-printed panels, Archelis does not require any electrical components or batteries.
The innovation is in the effective design: flexible carbon panels wrap around the buttocks, legs and feet to provide support and minimize pressure on joints.
The system stabilizes the ankles and knees, so the pressure from being upright is spread evenly across the shins and thighs.
Though the wearer appears to be standing, in fact, they are resting their back and legs while working on their feet.
Get to the point Other wearables are on the smaller side.
Measuring about 3 inches long, BIRD is essentially a modern thimble that turns your fingertip into a magic wand.
BIRD can control up to 10 devices at a time.
Using algorithms to decode a user's intent, the device also features precise sensors that track direction, speed, and gestures.
The technology enables users to turn any surface into a smart screen, as well as interact with other smart devices.
Walking around at home, users can project a laptop screen onto a wall, switch on a coffee machine, read on any surface, and make online purchases with the point or swipe of a finger.
The developers -- Israel-based MUV Interactive and Japan-based Silicon Technology -- expect BIRD to be embraced by the education and corporate sectors, thanks to its ability to create collaborative presentations.
For children and teens, using cell phones, tablets and computers at night is associated with losing sleep time and sleep quality, new research finds.
Even children who don't use their phones or the other technologies littering their bedrooms at night are losing shut-eye and becoming prone to daylight sleepiness, the analysis published today in JAMA Pediatrics finds.
The analysis found "a consistent pattern of effect across a wide range of countries and settings," said Dr. Ben Carter, lead author and a senior lecturer in biostatistics at King's College London.
Carter and his colleagues weeded through the medical literature to identify hundreds of applicable studies conducted between January 1, 2011, and June 15, 2015.
They chose 20 research reports involving a total of 125,198 children, evenly divided by gender, with an average age of 14 years.
After extracting pertinent data, Carter and his co-authors performed their own meta-analysis.
Few parents will be surprised by the results: The team found a "strong and consistent association" between bedtime media device use and inadequate sleep quantity, poor sleep quality and excessive daytime sleepiness.
Surprisingly, though, Carter and his team discovered that children who did not use their devices in their bedrooms still had their sleep interrupted and were likely to suffer the same problems.
The lights and sounds emitted by the technology, as well as the content itself, may be too stimulating.
Though Carter admits that a weakness of the analysis was "how the data was collected in the primary studies: self-reported by parents and children," many of us will probably recognize our own families' habits reflected in the statistics.
Electronic bedroom A large-scale poll conducted in the United States by the National Sleep Foundation (PDF) reported in 2013 that 72% of all children and 89% of teens have at least one device in their sleep environment.
Most of this technology is used near bedtime, that same report found.
According to Carter and his co-authors, this omnipresent technology negatively influences children's sleep by delaying their sleep time, as they finish watching a movie or play one more game.
Light emitted from these devices may also affect the circadian rhythm, the internal clock timing biological processes, including body temperature and hormone release, the researchers explain.
One specific hormone, melatonin, induces tiredness and contributes to the timing of our sleep-wake cycles.
Electronic lights can delay the release of melatonin, disrupting this cycle and making it harder to fall asleep.
Carter and his co-authors also suggest that online content may be psychologically stimulating and keep children and teens awake far past the hour when they turn off their devices and try to sleep.
"Sleep is vital for children," said Dr. Sujay Kansagra, director of the pediatric neurology sleep medicine program at Duke University Medical Center, who was not involved in the new analysis.
"We know that sleep plays a crucial role in brain development, memory, self-regulation, attention, immune function, cardiovascular health and much more."
Kansagra, author of " My Child Won't Sleep ," noted that the period of greatest brain development is in our first three years of life, which corresponds to when we need and get the most sleep.
"It's hard to believe that this would be a coincidence."
Kansagra said it's possible that parents underreported kids using devices at night, but more likely, the technology is simply interfering with sleep hygiene.
"For example, children who are allowed to keep devices in their room may be more likely to avoid a good sleep routine, which we know is helpful for sleep," he said.
Practicing good sleep hygiene Dr. Neil Kline, a representative of the American Sleep Association, agrees that sleep plays an integral role in a child's healthy development, even though "we don't know all of the science behind it.
There is even some research which demonstrates an association between ADHD and some sleep disorders."
In many respects, the findings of the new study are no surprise.
"Sleep hygiene is being significantly impacted by technology, especially in the teen years," said Kline, who bases his opinion not only on research but on his own "personal experience and also the anecdotes of many other sleep experts."
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Sleep hygiene -- tips that help facilitate good, continuous and adequate sleep -- include having a room that is quiet.
"And that would mean removing items that interfere with sleep, including electronics, TV and even pets if they interfere with sleep," Kline said.
One more important tip comes from the National Sleep Foundation , which recommends at least 30 minutes of "gadget-free transition time" before bedtime.
Power down for better sleep.
Other recommendations for good sleep hygiene include not exercising (physically or mentally) too close to bedtime; establishing a regular sleep schedule; limiting exposure to light prior to sleep; avoiding stimulants such as alcohol, caffeine and nicotine in the hours before bedtime; and creating a dark, comfortable and peaceful sleep environment.
Idiosyncratic Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk released a surprise rap song about Harambe, the gorilla that was killed by zookeepers after a toddler fell into his enclosure in 2016.
Musk tweeted a link to a Soundcloud page for the song titled "RIP Harambe" on Saturday along with the message "I'm disappointed that my record label failed."
The song was released through an account called Emo G Records.
The song features the chorus "RIP Harambe, sipping on some Bombay, we on our way to heaven, Amen, Amen.
RIP Harambe, smoking on some strong, hey, in the gorilla zoo and we thinking about you."
The decision to kill Harambe by Cincinnati Zoo officials sparked controversy in May 2016, with many arguing it was unnecessary.
The incident also led to a variety of popular internet memes, which have kept Harambe's image in the popular online consciousness long after the news cycle of the inciting event ended.
Apple announced a new streaming service, Apple TV Plus, which will house its original shows and movies and could compete with Netflix, Amazon and cable TV itself.
Scott Budman reports.
It took a while, but finally and with the carefully curated help of Oprah, Big Bird and Goldman Sachs Apple has at last unveiled a new streaming TV service, its own branded credit card and a news subscription product.
The moves have been largely expected and so far don't appear to drastically alter the competitive landscape the way Apple has done with previous products such as the iPhone and the iPad.
Still, the announcements represent an important step for the company as it seeks to diversify how it makes money amid declining sales of the iPhone, even if by themselves they are unlikely to turn Apple's big ship either way.
But it's a way to keep fans sticking with Apple even when they aren't buying a new iPhone every year.
Monday's announcements lacked some key details, such as pricing of the TV service.
Here's a rundown on what Apple unveiled what's good, what's not so good and what we still don't know.
APPLE TV PLUS The good: Oprah, Jason Momoa, Big Bird, Steven Spielberg and a host of other stars have lent themselves to original Apple shows that range from documentaries to science fiction, drama and preschool television programming.
The focus on "quality storytelling" is consistent with Apple's image and analysts say is likely to produce some hit shows.
The bad: Even so, "it will lack the full range and diversity of content available through Netflix, Amazon and others, and that is set to limit its appeal," said Martin Garner, an analyst at CCS Insight.
Apple also joins a crowded market and it's not clear how many more monthly subscriptions people have the money and the bandwidth for.
The unknown: Apple hasn't said how much it's going to cost.
APPLE NEWS PLUS The good: The price, $10 per month, looks like a good deal compared to separate subscriptions for newspapers and magazines (Apple will include more than 300 of the latter, including The New Yorker and Sports Illustrated).
Apple is touting "richly designed articles" that let people read publications tailored to Apple devices in all their glory.
Apple has also included privacy protections, and says it will collect data about what people read in a way that it won't know who read what just how much total time is spent on different articles.
The bad: While The Los Angeles Times and the Wall Street Journal have signed on, other big-name news publishers, such as The New York Times, have not.
Nor have, in fact, most other major U.S. newspapers.
The unknown: It's not entirely clear how much news you're getting for your money.
The Journal, famous for its business and industry coverage and commanding nearly $40 a month, will make "specially curated" general-interest news available for Apple customers, for example.
Other stories will still be there but Apple says users will have to search for the articles themselves.
APPLE CARD The good: Security and privacy, two areas Apple prides itself on, are a clear focus.
The physical version of the card has no numbers, and the digital version lives in your Apple Wallet on your phone, where it's protected by Face ID or Touch ID so even if someone steals your phone they won't be able to use the card to buy things.
Apple says it won't get information on what you buy with the card or where or for how much.
There are no late fees.
The bad: The rewards (2 percent cash back for all purchases using the digital version of the card, 1 percent using the physical version and 3 percent cash back at Apple stores) are nothing to write home about.
The card is meant for Apple users, so if you aren't, it's probably not for you.
The unknown: What sort of credit score you need to get approved, as well as exact interest rates.
APPLE ARCADE The good: Apple's new game subscription service, which will launch this fall, will be free of ads and in-app purchases, which can quickly add up and have become common in mobile games.
Apple promises more than 100 games, and they will be exclusive to the service, so there will be plenty of fresh adventures.
The bad: The service will only be available on Apple devices, including iPhones, iPads, Macs and Apple TVs.
That could be frustrating for those who don't own Apple products.
Unknown: Apple said all games would be available with one subscription, but did not say how much it would cost or when exactly the service will launch.
It has partnered with a few well-known game creators, including Hironobu Sakaguchi of "Final Fantasy" fame, but it's unclear how well all the new games will work or how fun they'll be to play.
AP Technology Writer Rachel Lerman contributed to this story.
The world's largest medical device company has acknowledged that many of its implanted cardiac defibrillators use an unencrypted wireless protocol that could allow an attacker to change the settings of the lifesaving devices, NBC News reported.
The vulnerability affects more than 20 defibrillator models, monitors and programmer units made by Medtronic Inc. of Fridley, Minnesota.
The devices include implantable cardioverter defibrillators, or ICDs, which can correct dangerously fast or irregular heartbeat, and cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators, or CRT-Ds, which essentially are pacemakers that deliver small electrical charges to help keep the heart's ventricles pumping in sync.
In a bulletin issued late last week, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, assigned the flaw a vulnerability score of 9.3 near the top of its 10-point scale.
It said the flaw could allow a bad actor of "low skill level" to read and write any memory location on the implanted devices.
Medtronic acknowledged in a statement that the flaw could allow an unauthorized individual to gain access to the equipment's settings and possibly change them.
But the company and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration advised patients to continue using the devices while a fix is developed, adding that no one is known to have successfully exploited the flaw.
Former NFL Player Cierre Wood Charged With Murder of Child
Technology that could silence illegal scam and spam robocallers has passed a major test, and is now just months away from arriving on your phone.
Chris Chmura reports.
Technology that could silence illegal scam and spam robocallers has passed a major test and is now just months away from arriving on your phone.
On Wednesday, AT&T and Comcast announced they had completed the first-ever exchange of "authenticated" calls between separate networks.
Both companies hailed the test as a milestone ahead of rolling out new caller ID authentication for all phones nationwide by the end of the year.
A Comcast spokesman told NBC Bay Area the calls were made using ordinary phones and phone lines on Comcast and AT&T's digital networks.
The calls were verified using the new SHAKEN and STIR standards created by a coalition of phone service providers and technology firms.
It's known as "caller ID authentication."
Here's how it works: calls made from authenticated phone lines will come with digital "tokens."
When your phone receives a call with one of these tokens, it will display the caller's true phone number and a "VERIFIED" notification, so you know you can safely answer and trust your caller ID.
Spammers and scammers, who mostly use computers to generate fake caller ID and often operate overseas, won't be able to access the digital tokens.
Any calls you get from them will show up as "unverified" or can be blocked altogether.
The FCC has ordered all U.S. phone service providers to make caller ID authentication available on all phones and phone lines by the end of this year.
Comcast and AT&T said Wednesday that other major phone providers will be conducting similar tests, ahead of the nationwide rollout anticipated over the next several months.
Comcast is the parent company of NBCUniversal, which owns and operates this station.
What to Know Verizon had a major network issue Tuesday that left many East Coast users unable to send or receive text messages Down Detector's outage map showed virtually the entire East Coast a blazing red, though it wasn't clear exactly how many were affected Outage reports vastly ebbed after 10 a.m., and Verizon confirmed the problem had been resolved by 11 a.m. A widespread Verizon wireless network issue left "a ton" of East Coast users unable to send or receive text messages early Tuesday, the company confirmed via Twitter as it responded to a series of frustrated messages.
It wasn't immediately clear when the outage started or exactly how many customers were affected.
Down Detector's outage map showed virtually the entire East Coast a blazing red.
While Verizon did not confirm the scope of the outage beyond the Eastern seaboard, parts of the midwest, including Illinois, Ohio and Indiana, also reported service outages.
It appeared to peak around 4,350 outages reported at 9 a.m. -- yet many customers still reported issues.
Verizon Wireless' verified customer service Twitter account appeared to be responding to a half-dozen tweets a minute for at least two hours.
One of the responses: "Verizon is currently experiencing a wireless network issue in many eastern areas.
Our technicians are aware of this issue and are working to resolve it quickly.
We apologize for any inconvenience this causes.
*NXS" Growing Scam Sees Cellphone Numbers Stolen A growing scam involves stealing your cellphone number -- it's called unauthorized porting.
Lynda Baquero has the info on how to protect your account.
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 25, 2018) Another: "We know how important it is to have working service, and we're on it!
We have confirmed there is a texting outage on the east coast.
Our technicians are fully aware we have a ton of customers that are being effected (sic), and we're working non-stop to get this matter resolved.
*IXR" At one point, Verizon was suggesting people fully power down their phones and turn them back on a few seconds later.
It wasn't clear if that fix was working, but a handful of users who did have their issues resolved were sprinkled in with the complaining tweets.
Outage reports vastly ebbed after 10 a.m., and Verizon confirmed the problem had been resolved by 11 a.m.
It wasn't clear what caused the network issue.
The state of California will upgrade all 440 of its 911 call centers with new RapidDeploy technology.
NBC 7's Danny Freeman has more.
(Published Monday, March 11, 2019) The state of California will overhaul all of its emergency call centers with a new technology in hopes of improving its location accuracy and situational awareness.
RapidDeploy is a new, cloud-based system that will improve location accuracy and natural disaster awareness for responders with live data feeds for fires, earthquakes, flooding, traffic, and incidents.
The California Office of Emergency Services (Cal OES) confirmed Monday it awarded a contract to RapidDeploy to install this technology across all 440 California 911 call centers will be updated with this technology.
Most technology that serves public safety and 911 today is at least one generation out of date were talking 15 to 25 years out of date, said Steven Raucher, CEO and co-founder of RapidDeploy.
They wouldnt know live traffic.
They wouldnt be able to give turn-by-turn navigation.
They wouldnt know the location of the handset thats calling 911.
Roughly half of all calls that come into 911 centers do not have a dispatchable address attached to them, Raucher said.
A lot of solutions we take for granted every day, right, like, Uber and meal delivery things can find you with an app seamlessly and 911 cant do that today, Raucher told NBC 7.
There are more than 6,000 different 911 call centers in the country, with major discrepancies between them, including differences in technology and governance.
Now, RapidDeploy and Cal OES are trying to change that in California, with the technology's "future-proof cloud architecture," according to RapidDeploy's blog.
Four pilot 911 centers have already begun using RapidDeploy in Northern California, and soon more centers will start using the new technology, according to Jamison Peevyhouse, president of the National Emergency Number Association.
We always say that 911 saves seconds and seconds saves lives.
When you think about location accuracy and how long it takes us to actually find that person first before we can even send a resource to their need.
Now, were cutting that time down by sometimes minutes, Peevyhouse told NBC 7.
Were seeing lives being saved on a scale that weve never even dreamed.
The RapidDeploy rollout will be completed by fall 2019.
Ed.
Note: A previous version of this article incorrectly attributed information as from Cal OES.
We have corrected the information from RapidDeploy and regret the error.
Image copyright EPA/Getty Images Wikileaks founder Julian Assange was arrested on Thursday at Ecuador's London embassy, where he had been granted asylum since 2012.
The United States alleges that he conspired with Chelsea Manning to access classified information on Department of Defense computers.
He could be jailed for up to five years.
Since it launched in 2006, Wikileaks has become renowned for publishing thousands of classified documents covering everything from the film industry to national security and wars.
The helicopter attack Image copyright Wikileaks Image caption Helicopter footage was posted on Wikileaks In 2007, Wikileaks published a video from a US military helicopter showing the killing of civilians in Baghdad, Iraq.
A voice on the transmission urged the pilots to "light 'em all up" and the individuals on the street were fired at from the helicopter.
When a van arrived on the scene to pick up the wounded, it too was fired at.
Reuters photographer Namir Noor-Eldeen and his assistant Saeed Chmagh were both killed in the attack.
US Army Intelligence Wikileaks has published hundreds of thousands of documents leaked by former US Army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning.
Documents relating to the war in Afghanistan revealed how the US military had killed hundreds of civilians in unreported incidents.
Image copyright AFP Further documents from the Iraq war revealed that 66,000 civilians had been killed - more than previously reported.
The documents also showed that prisoners had been tortured by Iraqi forces.
Among the leaks were more than 250,000 messages sent by US diplomats.
They revealed that the US wanted to collect "biographic and biometric" information - including iris scans, DNA samples and fingerprints - of key officials at the UN.
9/11 pager messages About 573,000 intercepted pager messages sent during the 9/11 terror attacks in the United States were published by Wikileaks.
The messages include families checking up on their loved ones and government departments reacting to the attacks.
"President has been rerouted won't be returning to Washington but not sure where he will go," one message said.
Democrat emails Wikileaks published thousands of hacked emails from the account of Hillary Clinton's campaign boss John Podesta, in the run-up to the US presidential election in 2016.
In the emails, Mr Podesta called Mrs Clinton's election rival Bernie Sanders a "doofus" for criticising the Paris climate change agreement.
Image copyright AFP The emails also suggested that a CNN contributor tipped off the Clinton campaign about a question that was going to be asked during a debate hosted by the broadcaster.
The timing of the leaks led to accusations that Wikileaks was deliberately trying to discredit Mrs Clinton.
The site also published leaked information from Republican Sarah Palin's Yahoo email accounts in 2008.
British National Party members In 2008, Wikileaks published the names, addresses and contact information of more than 13,000 members of the British National Party.
The political party's manifesto proposed banning immigration from Muslim countries and encouraging some UK residents to return to "their lands of ethnic origin".
Image copyright PA Image caption Nick Griffin, pictured in 2006 A former member was later fined 200 for the leak.
The Sony Pictures hack A leak of more than 170,000 emails and 20,000 documents from movie studio Sony Pictures was published on Wikileaks in 2015.
The entertainment company suffered a cyber-attack weeks before releasing The Interview, a film that poked fun at North Korea.
The emails revealed that actresses Jennifer Lawrence and Amy Adams received a lower fee than their male co-stars in American Hustle.
There were also messages from producers and executives insulting celebrities such as Angelina Jolie.
Leonardo DiCaprio was called "despicable" for turning down a role in a Sony Pictures film.
Mr Assange said the emails were in the public interest because they showed the inner working of a multinational company and were "at the centre of a geo-political conflict".
Image copyright Getty Images Pregnancy club Bounty UK has been given a 400,000 fine for illegally sharing the personal information of more than 14 million people.
The fine was issued by the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) in what it said was an "unprecedented" case.
Bounty compiled personal data but did not tell people that it was shared with 39 other organisations, said the ICO.
Bounty said it "acknowledged" the ICO's findings and had now made changes to how it handled member data.
'Careless' data-sharing The Bounty pregnancy and parenting club offers free samples, vouchers and guides to prospective and new parents via packs given out in hospitals or sent to people who use its apps.
Bounty gathered information from apps, its website, cards in merchandise packs and from new mothers in hospital.
The ICO said that while many knew Bounty as a pregnancy club, few knew that it was also a data broker supplying information to third parties that would use it to fine-tune direct marketing.
Bounty breached the 1998 Data Protection Act by not being "open and transparent" with people about what would be done with their personal data.
Image caption Bounty took data in hospitals and from apps and merchandise packs It shared 34.3 million records from June 2017 to April 2018 with 39 organisations including marketing agencies Acxiom, Equifax and Indicia.
The data shared was of "potentially vulnerable" people including new mothers and very young children, said the ICO.
"The number of personal records and people affected in this case is unprecedented in the history of the ICO's investigations into the data broking industry and organisations linked to this," said Steve Eckersley, the watchdog's director of investigations.
Mr Eckersley said the "careless" data-sharing was likely to have caused distress to many people because they did not know it was being shared so widely.
Jim Kelleher, Bounty's managing director, said: "In the past, we did not take a broad enough view of our responsibilities and as a result our data-sharing processes, specifically with regards to transparency, were not robust enough."
He added that the ICO had recognised that Bounty had changed its data-handling policies and that it now kept fewer records for less time.
It had also ended relationships with all data brokers.
Staff had also been trained to handle data to comply with the latest legislation.
In addition, said Mr Kelleher, Bounty planned to appoint an independent data expert to carry out an annual survey to ensure it did not breach data protection laws.
Image copyright Internet Archive Image caption The site takes snapshots of sites to log how the web changes The Internet Archive has been hit with 550 "false" demands to remove "terrorist propaganda" from its servers in less than a week.
The demands came via the Europol net monitoring unit and gave the site only one hour to comply.
The Internet Archive said the demands wrongly accused it of hosting terror-related material.
The website said the requests set a poor precedent ahead of new European rules governing removal of content.
If the Archive does not comply with the notices, it risks its site getting added to lists which ISPs are required to block.
Automatic removal The Internet Archive, which uses the archive.org web address, is a non-profit organisation that lets people save and visit pages that might otherwise have been lost from the net.
In a blog, the website's Chris Butler said that it had received notices identifying hundreds of web addresses stored on archive.org as leading people to banned material.
However, Mr Butler said, the reports were wrong about the content they pointed to, or were too broad for the organisation to comply with.
Some of the requests referred to material that had "high scholarly and research value" and were not produced by terror groups, he said.
Others called for the delisting of massively popular links that led people to "millions" of items.
Image copyright Getty Images As well as listing vast amounts of non-contentious data, Mr Butler said, the demands to remove material were issued during the night when the Archive was unstaffed.
This made it impossible to react within the one-hour window demanded by the notices, he said.
"It is not possible for us to process these reports using human review within a very limited timeframe like one hour," he said.
He asked: "Are we to simply take what's reported as 'terrorism' at face value and risk the automatic removal of things like the primary collection page for all books on archive.org?"
Initially the website believed that the notices came from a unit within the Europol European policing group, known as the Internet Referral Unit (IRU).
It is tasked with seeking out terror-related materials and making net firms remove them.
However, Europol said the requests actually came from the French IRU which routed its requests through Europol.
The French IRU has not yet responded to a BBC request for comment on why it issued so many reports to the site.
Mr Butler said the Archive had not complied with the requests and was still receiving lots of takedown notices from the French IRU.
He said the Archive's experience did not bode well for impending European rules governing the use of copyrighted material.
The Article 13 provision of European laws asks sites to get content checked before it is uploaded.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Thames Valley and Hampshire Police are the first forces to use the mobile detection technology Mobile phone detectors are to be used by police to find drivers using devices at the wheel.
The Thames Valley and Hampshire forces are rolling out the technology to show when motorists are using their phones.
A sign will flash at the driver telling them to stop using their mobile - but the detectors cannot tell if it is a driver or passenger using the phone.
The mother of Aimee Goldsmith, 11, killed by a driver using a phone, said it was a "step in the right direction".
Image copyright AFP Image caption The detectors are the first of their kind to be used by police in the UK though a similar system has been tried by councils The technology will not be used as an "enforcement tool", the forces said, but was instead aimed at educating motorists and identifying offending "hotspots".
Kate Goldsmith's daughter was one of four people killed in the crash when lorry driver Tomasz Kroker was using his phone at the wheel in 2016.
She said Aimee's death was "completely avoidable".
"Most mothers look forward to planning their daughter's weddings.
I had to plan Aimee's funeral," she said.
Ms Goldsmith said she had confronted drivers using their phones behind the wheel since her daughter's death.
"I have stopped a few people and said, 'you're using a mobile phone - it's actually a driver like you that killed my daughter'," she said.
She said the detectors were "not a perfect solution" to convict offenders but were "a step in the direction".
Image copyright TVP Image caption Aimee Goldsmith with her mum Kate and brother Jake Kroker killed Aimee, her stepbrothers Ethan Houghton, 13, Joshua, 11, and their mother Tracy, 45, when he ploughed into stationary traffic at 50mph on 10 August 2016.
He was jailed for 10 years after admitting four counts of causing death by dangerous driving and footage showed him on his phone at the moment of impact.
A judge said the 30-year-old's attention had been so poor he "might as well have had his eyes closed" before the crash on the A34 near Newbury.
Image copyright Family Handout Image caption Tracy Houghton, her son Ethan, stepdaughter Aimee Goldsmith and younger son Josh were all killed in a crash How does the technology work?
Thames Valley Police and Hampshire Constabulary have developed the technology with Westcotec Ltd.
The system, which cannot record footage, was initially tested in Norfolk last year.
The detector picks up 2G, 3G and 4G signals and will therefore flash to alert people in cars who are using phones to call, text or data.
If people are using a Bluetooth hands-free device, the detector will recognise this and not flash.
The technology cannot distinguish if a passenger or a driver of a vehicle is using a phone and so the sign will be activated regardless of who is using the mobile.
The forces say the two detectors, which cost 6,000 each, will be located on the A34 in Oxfordshire but will be posted at different locations throughout the Thames Valley and Hampshire to start - but more could be rolled out.
Drivers caught using a mobile phone while driving are currently fined 200 and given six points on their licence.
Matt Barber, deputy police and crime commissioner for Thames Valley, said the system was "not fool-proof", but added the police needed to "make it as socially unacceptable to use your mobile whilst driving as it is to drink and drive".
PC Liz Johnson, a roads safety officer, said research suggested a driver was four times more likely to crash if they were using a phone and twice as likely to be involved in a fatal collision when texting compared with drink-driving.
"It is vital that people take notice and stop using their mobile phones whilst driving," she added.
Image copyright Getty Images Amazon, Apple and Google all employ staff who listen to customer voice recordings from their smart speakers and voice assistant apps.
News site Bloomberg highlighted the topic after speaking to Amazon staff who "reviewed" Alexa recordings.
All three companies say voice recordings are occasionally reviewed to improve speech recognition.
But the reaction to the Bloomberg article suggests many customers are unaware that humans may be listening.
The news site said it had spoken to seven people who reviewed audio from Amazon Echo smart speakers and the Alexa service.
Reviewers typically transcribed and annotated voice clips to help improve Amazon's speech recognition systems.
Amazon's voice recordings are associated with an account number, the customer's first name and the serial number of the Echo device used.
Some of the reviewers told Bloomberg that they shared amusing voice clips with one another in an internal chat room.
They also described hearing distressing clips such as a potential sexual assault.
However, they were told by colleagues that it was not Amazon's job to intervene.
What did Amazon say?
The terms and conditions for Amazon's Alexa service state that voice recordings are used to "answer your questions, fulfil your requests, and improve your experience and our services".
Human reviewers are not explicitly mentioned.
In a statement, Amazon said it took security and privacy seriously and only annotated "an extremely small sample of Alexa voice recordings".
"This information helps us train our speech recognition and natural language understanding systems, so Alexa can better understand your requests, and ensure the service works well for everyone," it said in a statement.
"We have strict technical and operational safeguards, and have a zero tolerance policy for the abuse of our system.
Employees do not have direct access to information that can identify the person or account as part of this workflow."
What about Apple and Siri?
Apple also has human reviewers who make sure its voice assistant Siri is interpreting requests correctly.
Siri records voice commands given through the iPhone and HomePod smart speaker.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Google Home, Amazon Echo and Apple HomePod speakers According to Apple's security policy, voice recordings lack personally identifiable information and are linked to a random ID number, which is reset every time Siri is switched off.
Any voice recordings kept after six months are stored without the random ID number.
Its human reviewers never receive personally identifiable information or the random ID.
What about Google and Assistant?
Google said human reviewers could listen to audio clips from its Assistant, which is embedded in most Android phones and the Home speaker.
It said clips were not associated with personally identifiable information and the company also distorted the audio to disguise the customer's voice.
Are smart speakers recording all my conversations?
A common fear is that smart speakers are secretly recording everything that is said in the home.
While smart speakers are technically always "hearing", they are typically not "listening" to your conversations.
All the major home assistants record and analyse short snippets of audio internally, in order to detect a wake word such as "Alexa", "Ok Google" or "Hey Siri".
If the wake word is not heard, the audio is discarded.
But if the wake word is detected, the audio is kept and recording continues so that the customer's request can be sent to the voice recognition service.
It would be easy to detect if a speaker was continuously sending entire conversations back to a remote server for analysis, and security researchers have not found evidence to suggest this is happening.
Can I stop human reviewers listening to my voice clips?
Amazon's Alexa privacy settings do not let you opt out of voice recording or human review, but you can stop your recordings being used to "help develop new features".
You can also listen to and delete previous voice recordings.
Google lets you listen to and delete voice recordings on the My Activity page.
You can also switch off "web and app history tracking" and "voice and audio activity", which Google Assistant pesters you to switch on.
Apple does not let you listen back to Siri recordings.
Its privacy portal, which lets you download a copy of your personal data, says it cannot provide information "that is not personally identifiable or linked to your Apple ID".
To delete voice recordings created by Siri on an iOS device, go to the Siri & Search menu in Settings and switch Siri off.
Then go to the Keyboard menu (found in the General section) and switch off Dictation.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mark Williams won his third world snooker title in May 2018 The makers of the official world snooker video game have been accused of a marketing failure after leaving the current world champion off the cover of their latest title Snooker 19.
Images of Mark Selby, Ronnie O'Sullivan, Judd Trump and Neil Robertson were preferred to the 44-year-old Welshman Mark Williams.
However, the current world number three has responded in good humour.
Fans have questioned the decision to omit Williams's image, and his wife Joanne has accused World Snooker of "massive prejudice" and asked whether it is his age or because he is Welsh.
Image copyright TWITTER Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mark Williams kept a promise to appear naked in a news conference following his world championship win last year The Twitter account for Snooker 19 explained: "There are 128 players in the game and only space for four on the cover.
We were never going to be able to please everyone so we worked with World Snooker to make the tough decision."
Many snooker fans have disagreed with the decision, some calling the reasoning "bizarre," while others said the choice was "scandalous".
Six-times world champion Steve Davis joked that the makers of the game were "trying not to scare kids away from the shelves" and suggested ways that Mark could have been included in the game.
Joanne Williams made a wider point that snooker was a sport not given the attention it merited and the treatment of her husband was an example of this.
But fan Tim S took matters into his own hands on Twitter, mocking up a cover with a half-naked picture of the world champion, which Williams applauded.
Image copyright Mark Williams You might also like:
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Gina Martin campaigned for the law to be changed after a man took a picture up her skirt Upskirting is now a criminal offence in England and Wales after a campaign by a woman targeted at a music festival.
Offenders will face up to two years in prison for taking an image or video under somebody's clothing in order to see their genitals or underwear.
Gina Martin, who led the calls for change, said she hoped the change in law would help people "feel comfortable" to report such crimes.
It is already a specific crime in Scotland but not in Northern Ireland.
Speaking on the day the law came into effect, Ms Martin called on people to report upskirting when they see it happen.
She told BBC News: "If a new law's there, great - but if we don't know about it or aren't reporting it, [then] it doesn't do anything.
"We have to build a picture of how much this happens, because it happens a lot."
Prime Minister Theresa May described upskirting as "degrading and humiliating" and said offenders should "feel the full force of the law".
How the law was changed Ms Martin, 27, was waiting to watch The Killers perform at the British Summer Time music festival in London's Hyde Park in July 2017 when a man put his phone between her legs and took pictures.
After informing the police, she was shocked to discover upskirting was not a specific offence and the case had been closed.
A few days later she wrote about what had happened on Facebook.
Her post went viral with other women sharing similar experiences.
Soon an online petition calling for police to reopen the case had received 50,000 signatures.
She also wrote a feature for the BBC News website explaining her battle, recalling the dramatic moment she chased after the man who had taken the unwanted photo.
Image copyright @beaniegigi Image caption Gina Martin could not believe upskirting was not already a criminal offence It wasn't long before the campaign was picked up by Lib Dem MP Wera Hobhouse.
Encouraged by government ministers, she brought a private members' bill backing the creation of an upskirting offence.
Her bill was expected to sail through the Commons, but parliamentary rules meant it only required one MP to shout "object" to block its progress.
The bill was initially blocked by a Tory backbench MP, in a move which was widely criticised.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Hear MPs shout "shame" after Sir Christopher objects to the bill However, Ms Martin's campaign secured government backing on 15 July last year and the Voyeurism (Offences) (No.
2) Bill was put before Parliament days later.
The new legislation was approved in the House of Lords and has now passed the formality of Royal Assent to become law.
At the time, Ms Martin said: "To the outsider, the ordinary person, law and politics are complex and daunting.
But both are penetrable if you believe in yourself and find the right support."
She said the experience had been a "steep learning curve" in how the political system works - but that the decision was "politics and society at its best".
Analysis By Clive Coleman, BBC legal correspondent Until now offenders could only be prosecuted for voyeurism or outraging public decency.
But voyeurism only applies to filming in "private" while outraging public decency usually requires a witness - and upskirting often goes unobserved.
So, following tireless campaigning by Gina Martin, the government has created a specific offence of upskirting where the purpose is to obtain sexual gratification, or to cause humiliation, distress or alarm.
It covers culprits who say images were just taken "for a laugh", and paparazzi who take intrusive images.
What is the new law?
The new offences apply in instances when: Without consent, a person takes pictures beneath a person's clothing to observe their genitals or buttocks, whether covered or uncovered by underwear The offender has a motive of either gaining sexual gratification or causing humiliation, distress or alarm to the victim The Voyeurism (Offences) Act 2019 also ensures that the most serious offenders, where the purpose of the offence is for sexual gratification, are made subject to notification requirements (often referred to as being placed on the sex offenders' register).
More incidents reported New police figures show that more people are reporting upskirting.
Data obtained by the Press Association shows that the number of reported incidents rose from a total of 78 between April 2015 and April 2017 to 94 for the whole of 2018.
The vast majority of cases involve female victims and male perpetrators, according to the data released by police forces under Freedom of Information laws.
The police forces gave details of the incidents reported to them last year, with victims including pensioners and schoolchildren.
One case involved a 70-year-old woman, Essex Police said.
The same force was involved in a case where a suspect was charged with indecency after upskirt images of a child aged between seven and nine were discovered in his possession.
Campaigners from a children's charity, Plan International UK, suggest that the problem could be more widespread than official figures show.
The charity says its own research, which surveyed 1,004 girls in the UK aged between 14-21, found that one in 10 girls have experienced upskirting, and 52% didn't tell anyone about what happened to them.
Lucy Russell, head of girls' rights and youth at the charity, said: "The government is recognising that street harassment is not OK, which is a huge step forward.
"However, street harassment has become so normalised that girls are telling us they aren't speaking out about it because they're too embarrassed or think they won't be taken seriously."
She suggested more action should be taken at local level to encourage women to report offences.
'Full force of the law' Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "He was laughing": Three women tell the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire about their experience of upskirting Before the law was passed victims and police in England and Wales were only able to pursue offences of outraging public decency or as a crime of voyeurism.
Unlike other sexual offences, victims of those crimes do not have automatic anonymity.
The Ministry of Justice said the new law "bans the degrading practice to deter perpetrators, better protect victims, and bring more offenders to justice".
Justice Minister Lucy Frazer added: "We have always been clear - there are no excuses for this behaviour and offenders should feel the full force of the law.
From today, they will.
"By taking decisive action and working closely with Gina Martin and other campaigners, we have ensured more people are protected from this degrading and humiliating practice."
In Northern Ireland, upskirting is still not a specific offence although the Department of Justice (DoJ) has launched a consultation on potential changes to legislation.
Image caption Alex Jones laughs and jokes with the podcast hosts during the interview Anti-racism campaigners have called YouTube star Logan Paul "irresponsible and unwise" for interviewing conspiracy theorist Alex Jones on his channel.
Mr Jones is currently banned from YouTube for violating the site's policy on abusive behaviour.
He is also banned from many other social platforms for breaking conditions governing such behaviour.
The Hope Not Hate campaign said it was a mistake for Mr Paul to "give a platform to an extremist".
A two-hour chat with Mr Jones features on the Logan Paul podcast channel, which currently has about 1.4 million subscribers, many of whom are in their teens and 20s.
Legal action During the wide-ranging interview Mr Paul laughs and jokes with Mr Jones about his widely contested beliefs, at one point going along with Mr Jones's claim that former US presidential candidate Hillary Clinton is "crazy".
However, Mr Paul does challenge Mr Jones, who is being sued for defamation by parents of children killed during the 2012 Sandy Hook school shooting, on his views on the massacre, saying his view of it as a hoax could "become something dangerous".
Joe Mulhall, senior researcher at Hope Not Hate, criticised the decision to record and air the talk.
"Paul seems to have given a platform to an extremist simply to generate more views and appears to have portrayed his guest as an amusement," he said.
He added: "Paul described Jones as "a far-right conspiracy theorist" and yet still decided to have him on his show, meaning he knew what he was doing and seemingly didn't seem to care."
Mr Mulhall said the show could mean Mr Jones is exposed to a "new and younger audience".
Social platform ban The interview looks set to get significant views as Mr Paul has more than four million followers on Twitter, where the chat was previewed.
And almost 19 million people subscribe to Mr Paul's main YouTube channel.
Mr Paul and YouTube have yet to respond to requests for comment about the interview.
Many other social platforms have taken action against Mr Jones and his InfoWars media group.
Twitter has permanently banned Mr Jones and his InfoWars channel for repeatedly violating its terms and conditions.
Other bans have been imposed by Facebook, Apple, Pinterest and LinkedIn.
Paypal has also refused to process payments on behalf of InfoWars.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some tech firms are already being challenged about biases in their code Computer algorithms must show they are free of race, gender and other biases before they are deployed, US politicians have proposed.
Lawmakers have drafted a bill that would require tech firms to test prototype algorithms for bias.
Many organisations rely on coded instructions or algorithms for tasks such as showing users relevant ads, analysing behaviour or sorting data.
Critics said the bill could limit the benefits of machine intelligence.
The rules would affect companies with annual revenues of $50m (38m) in revenue or which hold data on more than one million people.
Democratic Senator Ron Wyden, who helped draft the law, said it was needed because computer algorithms were "increasingly involved" in the lives of Americans.
"But instead of eliminating bias, too often these algorithms depend on biased assumptions or data that can actually reinforce discrimination against women and people of colour," he said.
A statement outlining the need for the law, cited as evidence an algorithm that Amazon used to help recruit staff which was found to be biased against women.
The algorithm was scrapped.
Last month, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development sued Facebook for enabling discrimination by letting advertisers restrict who saw ads for homes on the basis of race, religion or nationality.
The proposed law drew criticism from the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation industry group.
Daniel Castro, a spokesman for the foundation said the law would only "stigmatise" AI and discourage its use.
"To hold algorithms to a higher standard than human decisions implies that automated decisions are inherently less trustworthy or more dangerous than human ones, which is not the case," he said in a statement.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Lei Jun has said he will give the giant bonus to charity The founder of Xiaomi has been given a "reward" worth more than 735m by the Chinese smartphone-maker.
The payment was confirmed in the firm's 2018 annual report.
The company had previously said it intended to make the share-based bonus to Lei Jun in recognition of his eight years of "devotion" to the company.
Lei in turn has promised to donate the sum to "charitable purposes" once taxes have been deducted from the compensation package.
The 636.6 million shares involved were worth 7.54bn Hong Kong dollars ($962.0m; 735.6m) based on their closing price on Tuesday after they rose 1% over the course of the day.
The amount is not far behind the 8.6bn yuan ($1.3bn; 980m) figure declared as Xiaomi's adjusted net profit for the year.
The share transfer is in addition to other payments the company made to Lei including a salary and dividends, for which an exact sum was not given.
The payment follows the flotation of the company's stock in Hong Kong in July.
Growing fast Beijing-based Xiaomi was the world's fourth biggest smartphone maker in 2018, according to the market research firm IDC, after Samsung, Apple and Huawei.
The number of handsets it shipped rose by 32.2% over the period at a time when the wider market contracted by 4.1%, said IDC.
Nine-year-old Xiaomi began selling its phones in the UK in November alongside other products including electric scooters and fitness-tracking wristbands.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Xiaomi recently expanded into the UK after finding success in Spain and other parts of Europe In its home market of China, its range of goods is far wider, with recent launches including a wireless vacuum cleaner, a sweeping robot and smart running shoes with automatic laces.
But Xiaomi remains best known for its phones.
And over the past month the company has experienced problems with the launch of its latest flagship models - the Mi 9 series - which it failed to manufacture fast enough to meet demand.
At one point Lei - who is Xiaomi's president - was reported to have declared he would "go to the factory and drive the screws in myself", if matters did not improve.
The Redditor who accidentally spent a year talking to himself Image copyright Andy Bowen Image caption Andy Bowen is a father-of-two living in Coventry, UK "I just thought I was dull."
Reddit user Andy Bowen could be forgiven for his frank assessment of his online presence.
I'm sure we all know the feeling of posting something quite clever online only to feel a bit rubbish when nobody seems to notice it.
But what separates Bowen from the rest of us is that he kept posting when faced with silence for an entire year - only to find out he'd been mistakenly "shadow banned" the entire time.
In other words, though the 34-year-old could make posts and comments on Reddit, absolutely nobody could see them.
Image copyright Reddit Image caption Andy (known as u/Bufger) had some entertaining interchanges with his newfound audience on Reddit Zero to Hero After getting in touch with Reddit support about the problem, discovering the mistake, and then publicly posting about what has happened, Andy has become an overnight sensation with the most "liked" post on the website on Wednesday.
More than 123,000 people have "upvoted" his post (Reddit's version of "likes"), with many more paying to give him special rewards - which at the time of writing amount to roughly three and a half years of the website's premium service.
"I'm having a very strange day," Andy told the BBC.
"I felt quite amazing when someone noticed one of my posts.
"I didn't realise it was going to blow up like that - and I had a very frantic quick search in the morning to see if I had to delete anything embarrassing.
"People were quite shocked why I wasn't more angry about it, but a moderator contacted me to explain I'd been caught up in an attempt to stop attacks on the website.
"They blocked an IP address or account they thought I was linked to, that's it really.
I was just so glad it was cleared up."
Andy said that for a long time he didn't understand why people weren't commenting on his posts, and highlighted one that he was disappointed nobody saw at the time.
"There were a couple of posts on the diabetes forum," he said, "where people had asked questions that I had the answers to.
"There's one specific one where someone was putting out a cry for help.
Mine was one of only two responses.
"It's gone now, they obviously never saw my response, and I don't know, you never know what's happening to the person behind it.
"I wonder how would my contribution have changed them during that time."
Image copyright Reddit Image caption Andy (u/Bufger on Reddit) compared his absence on Reddit to Tom Hank's time on a remote island in Castaway 'Worth it' Andy explained he kept posting simply because he enjoyed contributing to discussions, even if he wasn't getting anything back.
"Rather than just sit around and look at social sites I like to do something a little more active and - ironically - interactive.
"In the end it took me a long time to contact Reddit support, and they solved it within six hours really."
Comparing his year of social silence to his day of fame, Andy said it was "absolutely worth it".
"I've had a really funny day of content," he said.
"I've had lots of good interactions with people, really good conversations about real lives.
"What I don't want to do from this is make any money, so I'm going to contact a charity to see if I can do anything with crowdfunding.
"I'm going to try and turn this strange situation into something real."
Image copyright Wing The first home delivery drone service has been launched in Australia, after years of test flights.
Wing, owned by Google's parent company Alphabet, will deliver takeaway food, coffee and medicines by drone to about 100 homes in Canberra.
It has been testing its drones in Australia since 2014 but many residents had complained about the noise.
Wing said the feedback obtained during its trials had been "valuable" and it hoped to "continue the dialogue".
Australia's aviation authority gave Wing permission to launch a commercial service after examining its safety record and operational plans.
It judged that the company posed no risk to residents or other aircraft.
Image copyright Wing Image caption Wing deliveries are lowered on string Wing's drones deliver small packages which are lowered into the customer's garden on a length of string.
However, the approval has several conditions attached.
The drones will only be allowed to fly during the day and not before 08:00 AEST at the weekend.
They will not be allowed to fly over crowds or main roads.
Trials of the drones had attracted complaints from residents in Bonython, Canberra, who said they were noisy and intrusive.
The Bonython Against Drones campaign said the devices could be heard from "a long way off, both coming and leaving".
"When they do a delivery drop they hover over the site and it sounds like an extremely loud, squealing vacuum cleaner," the group said on its website.
In response, Wing said it had developed a quieter drone.
The aviation authority says Wing must use this quieter drone for its commercial service.
Image copyright Getty Images More rail passengers are getting the option to use paperless tickets, the Rail Delivery Group (RDG) has said.
Major stations are having the infrastructure for smart ticketing installed, with nine in 10 journeys "soon" available in this format, RDG, which represents rail firms, said.
Smart tickets can be bought online and stored on smartphones or smartcards.
Consumer group Which?
said the plans were a "positive step" but "long overdue".
The process has required a rollout of new technology across the network, with recent upgrades at Waterloo, Edinburgh Waverley and Gatwick Airport stations.
This will be followed by new readers and computer software at Blackfriars, Watford Junction, City Thameslink, London Bridge, East Croydon and Shenfield.
Robert Nisbet, regional director at the Rail Delivery Group, said: "Together, rail companies are going full steam ahead with smart ticketing, with passengers increasingly able to use their phones or smartcards thanks to station upgrades across the network.
"Of course, we want to go further, but realising the full benefits of new ticketing technology requires regulatory reform of the wider fares system.
That's why train companies are working with government to update the rules that underpin our rail fares."
According to RDG: 22% of journeys in 2018 were made using tickets bought online Paper equating to the distance from London to Edinburgh and back was saved in the first two months of 2019 thanks to paperless tickets Smart ticketing makes compensation for delayed or cancelled journeys easier Which?
managing director of public markets Alex Hayman said: "This long overdue rollout of smart ticketing across the rail network is a positive step towards making journeys simpler and improving passengers' experience.
"Last year train companies failed to resolve a quarter of a million compensation claims on time and too many people miss out on getting back the compensation they are owed for delays and cancellations."
He said plans to link smart ticketing to one-click compensation did not "go far enough".
The Labour Party also has doubts that the ambitions for smart ticketing can be achieved.
"There are more than 50 million different types of train ticket across the railway and smart tickets will do little to solve that confusion," said Labour's shadow rail minister Rachael Maskell.
"The government and industry are deluding themselves if they think they are anywhere near meeting their own targets for 'smart ticketing'".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Cambridge maternity patients criticised filming at the unit A television company has been fined 120,000 for unlawfully filming expectant mothers in a maternity unit.
True Vision Productions (TVP) set up CCTV-style cameras in the Rosie Birth Centre at Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, for a Channel 4 documentary on stillbirths in 2017.
Although notices were posted in the unit, the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) concluded TVP "failed to adequately inform patients".
The recorded footage was later deleted.
ICO director of investigations Steve Eckersley said: "Patients would not have expected to have been filmed in this situation, and many will have been very distressed when they learned such a private and potentially traumatic moment had been recorded."
Image caption Filming took place at the maternity unit in Cambridge TVP set up microphones and cameras in the unit's walk-in clinic between July and September 2017.
The hospital trust had given permission and TVP "had posted limited notices advising of the filming near to the cameras and in the waiting room area and had left letters on waiting room tables," the ICO said.
"The detailed investigation found that these letters did not provide adequate explanations to patients, with one notice incorrectly stating that mums and visitors would not be filmed without permission," it added.
Filming was halted after the BBC reported on concerns expressed by some expectant mothers.
It resumed using different methods and the documentary was broadcast in October 2018.
'Anxiety and stress' "The unlawfully obtained footage was not broadcast and was deleted," the ICO said.
It added the original footage "would have included the sensitive personal data of patients who could already be suffering anxiety and stress".
Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Trust said it had agreed to participate as patients said more needed to be done to raise awareness of issues surrounding stillbirth.
A spokesman added: "While protocols were in place to protect privacy, we acknowledge the ICO decision and we are sorry for any distress caused."
TVP, which is based in London, said it was "disappointed in the outcome" and had made "strong legal representations" that the ICO's approach was wrong.
It added: "We are considering the decision and the potential for an appeal with our legal advisors."
Image copyright Sony Image caption Sony describes the giant 16K display as acting like a "window to the world" The biggest 16K screen of its kind will shortly go on show in Japan.
Sony's display has four times as many horizontal pixels as a 4K television and eight times that of a regular 1080p high definition TV, meaning it can show images in far more detail than normal.
This will let viewers stand close to the unit - which is longer than a bus - without its image looking blurred.
One expert said it would likely take decades for 16K tech to filter down to consumer products.
The 63ft by 17ft (19.2m by 5.4m) screen is currently being installed at a new research centre that has been built for the Japanese cosmetics group Shiseido in the city of Yokohama, south of Tokyo.
It is so large it will stretch between the first and second floors.
The development was announced by Sony at the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB) trade show, which is currently being held in Las Vegas.
"We're moving slowly towards 8K TVs at the end of the decade and who knows how long it will take to get beyond that, so 16K is likely to be limited to the corporate world for the time being," commented David Mercer from the consultancy Strategy Analytics.
"But there's no doubt about it.
These displays are incredibly impressive in person - even 8K on a big display is almost mesmerising.
"When you get to this resolution it delivers almost a quasi-virtual reality experience as your eyes perceive there to be depth to the content."
Sony had previously designed a separate 16K display that went on show at Tokyo's Haneda Airport in 2014, but that looked like it was made up of dozens of smaller screens rather than presenting a single seamless picture.
Image copyright Sony Image caption Sony built an ultra-wide 16K display for Haneda Airport five years ago The new "super-size" installation has in fact been created out of several modular panels, but because they do not have bezels they can be fitted together without any visible gaps to create the impression of being a single screen.
Sony calls the technology "Crystal LED", which is its brand name for micro-LED display tech.
Samsung is also experimenting with the format.
The innovation does not require a backlight, but goes much brighter than OLED (organic light-emitting diode) screens while still delivering similar deep blacks.
At present, however, the high manufacturing costs involved make it too expensive for widespread use.
For now, Sony is pitching a range of smaller, lower-resolution Crystal LED displays for use in office lobbies, car showrooms, cinemas and theme parks.
Since little 16K footage exists elsewhere, the firm has produced its own film for Shiseido showing life-size animal wildlife.
It has not disclosed the method involved, but has previously achieved what is known as "quad ultra-high definition" footage by using a method called demosaicing.
This involves applying an algorithm to 8K footage to deduce what the additional pixels should look like, similar to the way 4K TVs sometimes up-sample 1080p footage.
Video A new filtering system installed at London Marylebone train station is trying to tackle the problem of air pollution.
Using a nano-carbon filter the device is capable of removing over 90% of harmful gases from the environment.
BBC Click finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Image copyright Getty Images Photo-sharing website Flickr is to offer subscribers copy-protection tools that can detect if their images have been used without permission.
Flickr Pro subscribers will be able to monitor up to 1,000 images and send automated copyright claims to people or companies that use their photos.
"We want our photographers to feel comfortable sharing their work online," said Flickr's Andrew Stadlen.
Flickr deleted thousands of photos in February after changing its pricing.
Under the ownership of Verizon it had offered all members one terabyte of photo storage for free.
But in 2018, its new owner SmugMug said the policy had proved "staggeringly expensive" and reduced the allowance to 1,000 photos for non-paying customers.
The copy-detection tools will be provided by US start-up Pixsy.
Under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), companies such as Facebook and Twitter are obliged to remove any copyright-infringing material they are made aware of.
Flickr Pro subscribers will be able to send up to 10 computer-generated DMCA reports for free.
However, they will also be able to submit legal challenges and seek compensation if they find their images used without permission for commercial purposes.
Pixsy says it has won thousands of legal claims for photographers using its system.
Put to the test The BBC put the tools to the test with a selection of images.
The first was a photo of one of the tech reporters - Cody Godwin - used in a BBC news story in January.
The AI-based tool found the picture on 26 other news websites making it easy to see who had linked to the BBC report and who had simply copied it.
Image caption This photo of Cody Godwin was taken for a BBC news story Another photograph of Cody taken in the BBC's Los Angeles bureau turned up a surprising result.
The tools found an image of Stormy Daniels in the same studio.
While the person in the photo was different, the AI had detected that both women were sat in front of the same backdrop.
Image caption Cody Godwin and Stormy Daniels in the BBC's LA bureau Pixsy says its AI is good enough to spot images that have been turned into merchandise for sale on sites such as Amazon or Etsy.
As a final test, the BBC printed an image of tech reporter Zoe Kleinman and stuck it on a mug.
Image caption This mug was put up for sale on Ebay The mug did not attract any bids on eBay and so far the tools have not detected it.
However, the company says it can take several hours for new posts to be indexed.
Image copyright Getty Images British cosmetics firm Lush is closing several of its UK social media accounts this week.
Announcing the news on Twitter, it said it was "tired of fighting with algorithms" and did not want to "pay to appear" in newsfeeds.
The firm, which sells fragrant handmade soaps, bath bombs and other body products, asked customers to contact it by email, phone, or via its website.
LushUK has 202,000 Twitter followers and 569,000 on Instagram.
More than 423,000 have liked the page on Facebook.
That account name will close on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram along with Lush Kitchen, Lush Times, Lush Life, Soapbox and Gorilla.
"We don't want to limit ourselves to holding conversations in one place, we want social to be placed back in the hands of our communities - from our founders to our friends," it said in a statement.
However, Lush North America tweeted that its channels would remain in operation.
The firm said it was "cutting out the middleman between ourselves and the Lush community".
It also hinted that it would be trying a new social approach - and it suggested a hashtag for those wishing to chat with it.
Mike Blake-Crawford from marketing agency Social Chain said the hashtag hinted at "more work with influencers".
"The challenge for me is how they adequately capitalise on this conversation without a centralised social media 'home' for their products and campaigns," he said.
Other marketers expressed surprise at the move.
Beauty and fashion blogger Leah tweeted that she could not "fathom" why Lush was shutting down an Instagram account with 568,000 followers.
In 2018 Lush suspended an ad campaign following a storm of criticism on social media.
The campaign related to a public inquiry into claims of wrongdoing by undercover officers who infiltrated activist groups in England and Wales.
Last year British pub chain Wetherspoons removed itself from social media, citing concerns about personal data misuse and the addictive nature of the platforms.
It had a relatively small community of 100,000 Facebook followers and 6,000 on Instagram.
Image copyright Getty Images The government has announced the locations of 12 "Institutes of Technology" in England, intended to provide high-quality skills training.
The aim is to offer young people a vocational alternative to universities.
Employers will support the institutes, most of which will be based around existing colleges and universities.
The dozen include three in London, two in the west Midlands and with others in Milton Keynes, Swindon, Durham, Exeter, York and Somerset.
Prime Minister Theresa May said they would "end outdated perceptions" that were biased against vocational skills.
But Labour said the plans were too small-scale and would not help the "overwhelming majority" of students in technical education.
Vocational training has often been seen as being underserved by the education system, with more status attached to young people taking an academic pathway, through GCSEs, A-levels and university.
Training gap The idea of introducing a network of Institutes of Technology is to create a high-quality route to gain skills and technical qualifications, comparable to going to university.
They will begin opening from the autumn, supported by funding of 170m.
Image copyright Getty Images The institutes, based in further education colleges and universities, will each have an industry specialism, and use the expertise of relevant employers.
For instance, the planned institute in Durham will involve local colleges, Newcastle University and Nissan, with a specialism in "digital advanced manufacturing".
In east London, Queen Mary, University of London will lead a group with Newham College and employers including Siemens, with specialisms of transport and engineering.
There have been warnings that by international standards England has relatively low numbers of people trained for advanced vocational skills.
The review of higher education funding, chaired by financier Philip Augar, is believed to have been looking at ways to improve access to student finance for those taking vocational courses.
There are plans for a new technical qualification, the T-level, to be introduced next year, which is the latest attempt to create a vocational equivalent to A-levels.
More flexible system "I firmly believe that education is key to opening up opportunity for everyone - but to give our young people the skills they need to succeed, we need an education and training system which is more flexible and diverse than it is currently," said the prime minister.
"These new institutes will help end outdated perceptions that going to university is the only desirable route, and build a system which harnesses the talents of our young people," said Mrs May.
Matthew Fell, policy director of the CBI business group, said: "Expanding high-quality technical education and training is a top priority for employers, who will welcome this extra investment."
The institutes will be the "pinnacle of technical training", said Education Secretary Damian Hinds.
He hoped they would "make sure young people have the skills they need to build a well-paid rewarding career, while the economy gains the skilled workers it needs to be more productive".
But Labour's shadow education secretary Angela Rayner said the institutes did not match the scale of the demand.
"While investment in further education is desperately needed, this announcement will do nothing for the overwhelming majority of providers and students in technical education," said Ms Rayner.
She said the funding did not replace the money already lost to further and adult education budgets - and the proposed institutes did not cover enough of the country.
"When they first announced this policy years ago, the government said they would make higher-level technical education available in all areas, yet this list does not include a single university or college in the north-west," she said.
The leads to set up the Institutes of Technology are:
Image copyright Getty Images Two Chinese men studying in the US are accused of netting nearly $1m (765,000) by sending "broken" fake iPhones to Apple for repair and getting official handsets in return.
According to a criminal complaint filed last month, the counterfeit phones were shipped from China and the replacements were sent back there and sold on.
Almost half of the fake iPhones were replaced with genuine ones.
Both men claim they were unaware that the faulty phones were fake.
Apple calculated that it lost $895,800 (684,758) as a result of the alleged scam.
Zhou Yangyang and Jiang Quan, students at Oregon State University, are named in the complaint.
Both are Chinese citizens on student visas.
The alleged scam was uncovered after customs officers opened five suspicious packages en route from Hong Kong, which appeared to contain counterfeit iPhones.
A further search of Mr Jiang's home found a further 300 fake devices, according to the testimony from Homeland Security agent Thomas Duffy.
Mr Jiang is charged with trafficking counterfeit goods, while Mr Zhou is accused of submitting false information on export documentation.
Apple told investigators it had received 3,069 repair requests, and completed 1,493 of these.
The others were rejected as counterfeits.
It added that all the warranty claims stated that the device would not turn on.
Selecting this particular issue meant that the phone replacement process was immediately triggered rather than face examination from Apple technicians, according to the handset maker.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Bitcoin mining can involve hundreds of computers working together to try to guess the solution to cryptographic puzzles Bitcoin creation has joined a list of activities facing a ban in China.
A notice published online in Mandarin by the country's economic planning agency added "virtual currency mining activities [including] the production process of Bitcoin" to a list of industries that could be shut down.
The suggestion is that the power consumed by the industry contributes to pollution and wastes resources.
The Chinese public has been invited to comment until 7 May.
The National Development and Reform Commission has not said when the suggested ban might be introduced.
Puzzle prizes Bitcoin mining involves carrying out computer processor-intensive tasks to solve complicated mathematical problems in order to verify cryptocurrency transactions.
As an incentive to take part, the owners of the equipment that is first to solve a puzzle are rewarded with a batch of newly created bitcoins.
The complexity of the tasks is adjusted to ensure each block of transactions is processed on a regular basis - approximately once every 10 minutes on average.
As a consequence, the more computers that compete, the harder the puzzles are made, which in turn means a greater amount of electricity is required to power them.
Some of the world's biggest cryptocurrency mining operations - known as farms - are based in China.
Concerns about them have previously been raised in the country's state-controlled media.
The Xinhua news agency reported in October about a study that suggested related carbon dioxide emissions could feed into global warming, and increase temperatures by two degrees Celsius as soon as 2033.
The news service has also reported on hundreds of mining computers being seized by the authorities following claims they were responsible for abnormal electricity consumption, threatening the smooth running of local power grids.
Last year, one of the country's regulators - the Leading Group of Internet Financial Risks Remediation - called on local governments to direct mining companies to make an "orderly exit" from the market.
Chinese regulators have also taken other action against the industry, closing Bitcoin exchanges and banning initial coin offerings (ICOs) as part of a digital currency crackdown in 2017.
The National Development and Reform Commission's intervention appears to have had little effect on the value of Bitcoin.
Its notice was published on Monday, since when one bitcoin has continued to trade for above $5,000 (3,820) - its highest level since November 2018.
Image copyright PA Wire Image caption Vicky Balch had her leg amputated after being injured in the Alton Towers rollercoaster crash in 2015 Facebook has apologised to a disability rights activist after he was told people might find images of disabled people "disturbing".
Simon Sansome, who runs Ability Access, discovered Facebook had blocked his page from being shared with new users.
Facebook says its employee gave Simon incorrect information.
Instead, it says his page was blocked for featuring a naked picture of Vicky Balch, who was injured in the Alton Towers rollercoaster crash in 2015.
Simon spoke to a Facebook employee over the phone to find out why his page was no longer allowed to be shared.
He told Radio 1 Newsbeat that he "could not believe what was happening" when he was told people might find it "disturbing" to see pictures of disabled people on their feeds.
So he started recording the conversation.
Image copyright PA Wire Image caption Five people were seriously injured when the Smiler ride crashed "If it wasn't recorded, nobody would have believed it," he said.
The rollercoaster crash at Alton Towers in 2015 left Vicky Balch injured and needing to have her right leg amputated.
"That photo of Vicky has been on our page for a number of years now, and it's a fantastic photo which is empowering women and people with disabilities.
"It's a picture that's been widely shared on social media, in newspapers and celebrated by our disabled community."
Vicky chose not to speak to us for this article, but when the pictures first came out following her 21st birthday in 2016, she said they made her feel "amazing".
Image copyright Andrew Wood Photography Image caption Vicky said the pictures she had taken for her 21st birthday helped boost her confidence Facebook told Radio 1 Newsbeat: "What Mr Sansome was told is incorrect and should not have been said - and we've apologised unreservedly for that."
The tech giant said that Simon's post was rejected for "depicting adult content, as there is a partially covered topless female in the video".
Facebook explained that because the post in question was an advert, it was subject to stricter standards than normal posts.
"If Mr Sansome is able to remove this particular image from the video, the advert would be approved and allowed to run," it added.
Simon said he has no intention of removing the image.
"It is a picture of a wonderful, brave woman showing off her disability," he said.
Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube.
Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here.
Image caption The surveillance system was built to monitor Lahore's streets following a series of terrorist attacks Huawei removed wi-fi transmitting cards from a Pakistan-based surveillance system's CCTV cabinets after they were discovered by the project's staff.
Punjab Safe City Authority (PSCA) told BBC Panorama it had told the firm to remove the modules in 2017 "due to [a] potential of misuse".
The authority said that the Chinese firm had previously made mention of the cards in its bidding documents.
But a source involved in the project suggested the reference was obscure.
A spokesman for Huawei said there had been a "misunderstanding".
He added that the cards had been installed to provide diagnostic information, but said he was unable to discuss the matter further.
The PSCA confirmed that the explanation it had been given was that wi-fi connectivity could have made it easier for engineers to troubleshoot problems when they stood close to the cabinets, without having to open them up.
Two people involved in Lahore's project helped bring the matter to the BBC's attention and have asked to remain anonymous.
One said that Huawei had never provided an app to make use of the wi-fi link, and added that the cabinets could already be managed remotely via the surveillance system's main network.
Image caption It was suggested that a wi-fi link could have helped engineers troubleshoot problems without having to climb up and open the cabinets A UK-based cyber-security expert said that it was not uncommon for equipment sellers to install extra gear to let them offer additional services at a later date.
But he added that the affair highlighted the benefit of oversight because if the authority had remained unaware of the cards' existence, it could not have taken steps to manage any potential risk they posed.
"As soon as you give someone another method of remote connectivity you give them a method to attack it," commented Alan Woodward.
"If you put a wi-fi card in then you're potentially giving someone some other form of remote access to it.
You might say it's done for one purpose, but as soon as you do that it's got the potential to be misused."
There is no evidence that the cards created a vulnerability, and one of the sources involved confirmed that there had not been an opportunity to test if they could be exploited before the kit was removed.
'Prompt response' Lahore's Safe City scheme was first announced in 2016 following a series of terrorist bombings.
It provides a vast surveillance network of cameras and other sensors, and a brand new communications system for the city's emergency services As part of the system, Huawei installed 1,800 CCTV cabinets, within which it placed the wi-fi modules behind other equipment.
Image caption The cards were placed among other equipment in the cabinets The PSCA's chief operating officer told the BBC that Huawei had been "prompt" in its response to a request to remove them and had fully "complied with our directions".
"It is always [the] choice of the parties in a contract to finalise the technical details and modules as per their requirements and local conditions," added Akbar Nasir Khan.
"PSCA denies that there are any threats to the security of the project [and the] system was continuously checked by our consultants, including reputed firms from [the] UK."
Local concerns have been raised over the Safe City scheme after reports that images had been leaked and circulated via social media earlier this year showing couples travelling together in vehicles.
But there is no suggestion that this was related to Huawei's involvement, and in any case the wi-fi modules would have been removed by this point.
The PSCA has also denied anyone from its office had been involved.
Panorama: Can We Trust Huawei?
is available in the UK on iPlayer.
Image copyright David Curnick, ZSL Satellites scanning the oceans are a valuable new tool to protect sharks, according to scientists.
A review of evidence suggests endangered sharks can be protected from threats such as illegal fishing, using the technology.
Whales, turtles and birds are already being monitored from space, raising hopes that the technique can be applied in the conservation of other species.
Many sharks are on the brink of extinction.
Populations of sharks, rays and skates (elasmobranchs) have declined dramatically over the past 50 years.
"New technologies such as this are going to be really important to the conservation of sharks," said Michael Williamson of the Zoological Society London (ZSL) and King's College, London.
Other stories like this: Over-fishing is one of the biggest causes of the decline in sharks, through accidental or illegal targeting.
Image copyright David Curnick, ZSL Image caption Grey reef shark in British Indian Ocean Territory Predictive models based on big data analysis will be the future in marine conservation, said Maria Jose Cornax of the ocean conservation charity, Oceana, which was not involved in the study.
"The current situation where illegal fishing is addressed on a case-by-case basis may be unaffordable for both governments and the marine environment," she said.
"Technology, transparency and big data analysis could be the solution, helping us in preventing the damage before it happens."
Why monitor sharks from space?
Satellites criss-crossing the globe can analyse factors such as ocean temperature and salinity, which affect the movement of sharks across the world's oceans.
Mining such data will allow sharks to be better protected.
For example, patrol boats could be directed to areas where sharks might be at risk of illegal fishing.
Satellite imagery is also being used in conservation to detect population size - for example with whales and penguins.
Image copyright Joanna Kershaw /University of St Andrews Image caption Tagged humpback whales: A way to study marine life "There's no reason we can't foresee this being moved on to elasmobranchs, especially particularly large ones, which might spend time at the surface, such as whale sharks or basking sharks or even manta rays," said Michael Williamson.
How does this information help in conservation?
Data from satellites combined with other information from electronic tagging of sharks may be used in the future to police illegal fishing.
Image copyright David Curnick, ZSL Image caption Tags on sharks can track their movements One study tracked grey reef and silvertip sharks in a protected area of the British Indian Ocean Territory, to see how they move around the oceans.
Such tags could be used in the future to monitor sharks in real time from space, allowing detection of illegal fishing.
Why do we need sharks?
Sharks are at the top of the food chain, which makes them crucial to the health of the oceans.
Fishing - both targeted and accidental - is to blame for the steep decline in many populations, together with habitat loss due to coastal development, degradation of mangrove forests, water pollution and trawling.
Follow Helen on Twitter.
Internet sites could be fined or blocked if they fail to tackle "online harms" such as terrorist propaganda and child abuse, under government plans.
The Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) has proposed an independent watchdog that will write a "code of practice" for tech companies.
Senior managers could be held liable for breaches, with a possible levy on the industry to fund the regulator.
But critics say the plans threaten freedom of speech.
The Online Harms White Paper is a joint proposal from the DCMS and the Home Office.
A public consultation on the plans will run for 12 weeks.
The paper suggests: establishing an independent regulator that can write a "code of practice" for social networks and internet companies giving the regulator enforcement powers including the ability to fine companies that break the rules considering additional enforcement powers such as the ability to fine company executives and force internet service providers to block sites that break the rules Outlining the proposals, Culture Secretary Jeremy Wright said: "The era of self-regulation for online companies is over.
"Voluntary actions from industry to tackle online harms have not been applied consistently or gone far enough."
Discussing potential penalties on BBC Breakfast, he said: "If you look at the fines available to the Information Commissioner around the GDPR rules, that could be up to 4% of company's turnover... we think we should be looking at something comparable here."
What are 'online harms'?
The plans cover a range of issues that are clearly defined in law such as spreading terrorist content, child sex abuse, so-called revenge pornography, hate crimes, harassment and the sale of illegal goods.
But it also covers harmful behaviour that has a less clear legal definition such as cyber-bullying, trolling and the spread of fake news and disinformation.
It says social networks must tackle material that advocates self-harm and suicide, which became a prominent issue after 14-year-old Molly Russell took her own life in 2017.
After she died her family found distressing material about depression and suicide on her Instagram account.
Molly's father Ian Russell holds the social media giant partly responsible for her death.
Mr Russell told the BBC that the white paper was "a very important step" towards making the internet a safer place.
"I think after what we've been through and sadly what so many families go through, the urgency is huge," he said.
However he added that the paper could have contained more specific guidance for parents.
"For example, there's not very much about age limits and ratings - it seems to me lots of companies self-rate their apps and their content and that makes it very difficult for a parent to know how much they can trust those platforms," he said.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Ian Russell partly blames Instagram for his daughter taking her own life and says "the urgency is huge" to protect children online Home Secretary Sajid Javid said tech giants and social media companies had a moral duty "to protect the young people they profit from".
"Despite our repeated calls to action, harmful and illegal content - including child abuse and terrorism - is still too readily available online.
What do the proposals say?
The plans call for an independent regulator to hold internet companies to account.
It would be funded by the tech industry.
The government has not decided whether a new body will be established, or an existing one handed new powers.
The regulator will define a "code of best practice" that social networks and internet companies must adhere to.
As well as Facebook, Twitter and Google, the rules would apply to messaging services such as Snapchat and cloud storage services.
The regulator will have the power to fine companies and publish notices naming and shaming those that break the rules.
The government says it is also considering fines for individual company executives and making search engines remove links to offending websites.
It is also consulting over blocking harmful websites.
On the face of it, this is a tough new regime - and ministers have acted upon the demands of charities like the NSPCC which want what they regard as the "Wild West Web" to be tamed.
But a closer look reveals all sorts of issues yet to be settled.
Will a whole new organisation be given the huge job of regulating the internet?
Or will the job be handed to the media regulator Ofcom?
What sort of sanctions will be available to the regulator?
And will they apply equally to giant social networks and to small organisations such as parents' message boards?
Most tricky of all is how the regulator is going to rule on material that is not illegal but may still be considered harmful.
Take this example.
Misinformation is listed as a potential harm, and Health Secretary Matt Hancock has talked about the damaging effects anti-vaccination campaigners have had.
So will the regulator tell companies that their duty of care means they must remove such material?
The government now plans to consult on its proposals.
It may yet find that its twin aims of making the UK both the safest place in the world online and the best to start a digital business are mutually incompatible.
What will the 'code of practice' contain?
Image copyright Getty Images The white paper offers some suggestions that could be included in the code of best practice.
It suggests the spread of fake news could be tackled by forcing social networks to employ fact-checkers and promote legitimate news sources.
But the regulator will be allowed to define the code by itself.
The white paper also says social media companies should produce annual reports revealing how much harmful content has been found on their platforms.
The children's charity NSPCC has been urging new regulation since 2017 and has repeatedly called for a legal duty of care to be placed on social networks.
A spokeswoman said: "Time's up for the social networks.
They've failed to police themselves and our children have paid the price."
How have the social networks reacted?
Image copyright PA Rebecca Stimson, Facebook's head of UK policy, said in a statement: "New regulations are needed so that we have a standardised approach across platforms and private companies aren't making so many important decisions alone.
"New rules for the internet should protect society from harm while also supporting innovation, the digital economy and freedom of speech."
Twitter's head of UK public policy Katy Minshall said in a statement: "We look forward to engaging in the next steps of the process, and working to strike an appropriate balance between keeping users safe and preserving the open, free nature of the internet."
TechUK, an umbrella group representing the UK's technology industry, said the government must be "clear about how trade-offs are balanced between harm prevention and fundamental rights".
Jim Killock, executive director of Open Rights Group, said the government's proposals would "create state regulation of the speech of millions of British citizens".
Matthew Lesh, head of research at free market think tank the Adam Smith Institute, went further.
He said: "The government should be ashamed of themselves for leading the western world in internet censorship.
"The proposals are a historic attack on freedom of speech and the free press.
"At a time when Britain is criticising violations of freedom of expression in states like Iran, China and Russia, we should not be undermining our freedom at home."
And freedom of speech campaigners Article 19 warned that the government "must not create an environment that encourages the censorship of legitimate expression".
A spokesman said it opposed any duty of care being imposed on internet platforms.
They said that would "inevitably require them to proactively monitor their networks and take a restrictive approach to content removal".
"Such actions could violate individuals' rights to freedom of expression and privacy," they added.
The BBC has a digital guide to life online for parents and young people: BBC Own It
A top cyber-security official has said Huawei's "shoddy" engineering practices mean its mobile network equipment could be banned from Westminster and other sensitive parts of the UK.
GCHQ's Dr Ian Levy told BBC Panorama the Chinese telecom giant also faced being barred from what he described as the "brains" of the 5G networks.
The UK government is expected to reveal in May whether it will restrict or even ban the company's 5G technology.
Huawei said it would address concerns.
Last month, a GCHQ-backed security review of the company said it would be difficult to risk-manage Huawei's future products until defects in its cyber-security processes were fixed.
It added that technical issues with the company's approach to software development had resulted in vulnerabilities in existing products, which in some cases had not been fixed, despite having being identified in previous versions.
In his first broadcast interview, the executive in charge of the firm's telecoms equipment division said he planned to spend more than the $2bn (1.5bn) already committed to a "transformation programme" to tackle the problems identified.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption WATCH: Spencer Kelly visited Huawei's giant theme park-like campus near Shenzhen for Panorama "We hope to turn this challenge into an opportunity moving forward," said Ryan Ding, chief executive of Huawei's carrier business group.
"I believe that if we can carry out this programme as planned, Huawei will become the strongest player in the telecom industry in terms of security and reliability."
'Very shoddy' However, Dr Levy - the technical director of GCHQ's National Cyber Security Centre - said he had yet to be convinced.
"The security in Huawei is like nothing else - it's engineering like it's back in the year 2000 - it's very, very shoddy.
"We've seen nothing to give us any confidence that the transformation programme is going to do what they say it's going to do."
He added that "geographic restrictions - maybe there's no Huawei radio [equipment] in Westminster" was now one option for ministers to consider.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption What could happen if the UK's 5G networks suffered a major cyber-attack?
Mobile UK - an industry group representing Vodafone, BT, O2 and Three - has warned that preventing Huawei from being involved in the UK's 5G rollout could cost the country's economy up to 6.8bn and delay the launch of its next-generation networks by up to two years.
Those already using Huawei's equipment have opted to keep it out of what is known as the core of their networks, where tasks such as checking device IDs and deciding how to route voice and data take place.
EE used to make use of Huawei's gear in its 3G and 4G core, but BT is currently stripping it out after buying the business.
The industry does, however, want to use Huawei's radio access network (Ran) equipment - including its antennae and base stations.
These allow individual devices to wirelessly connect to their mobile data networks via radio signals transmitted over the airwaves.
Paper-based communication The US has concerns about any deployment of Huawei's products.
Image copyright Huawei Image caption Huawei is under pressure to tighten up its software engineering and cyber-security processes "You would never know when the Chinese government decide to force Huawei... to do things that would be in the best interests of the Communist party, to eavesdrop on the US," claimed Mike Conaway, a member of the House Intelligence Committee.
The Republican drafted a bill last year to ban the US government from doing business with firms that use the company's equipment.
It was later adapted to become part of the National Defense Authorization Act, which was signed into law by President Trump.
The effect has been to deter the country's major telecoms networks from working with Huawei.
The Chinese company is now suing the US government claiming the move is unconstitutional.
The congressman now has his sights on the UK.
"Obviously, the terrific relationship between the UK and the United States - English-speaking countries - is important to maintain," Mr Conaway told Panorama.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Huawei's 5G equipment is already being installed in China "But as a part of that we will have to assess what kind of risks we would have in sharing... secrets that would go across Huawei equipment, Huawei networks.
"We can always share things old-school ways by, you know, paper back and forth.
But, in terms of being able to electronically communicate, across Huawei gear, Huawei networks, would be risky at best."
This is a matter that crosses political divides.
Mark Warner, a Democrat and vice chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee, also cautioned against allowing Huawei to be part of the UK's 5G networks.
"I think that the consequences could be dramatic," he said.
"I think there could be a real concern about the ability to fully share information because of the fear that the network that would undergird 5G in the UK, that there might be a vulnerability."
GCHQ's Dr Levy, however, played down such fears saying that efforts to digitally scramble communications meant that even if someone was able to intercept them, they would only get "gobbledygook".
"Anything sensitive from a company or government or defence is independently encrypted of the network," he explained.
"You don't trust the network to protect you, you protect yourself."
He added that despite finding vulnerabilities in some of Huawei's kit "we don't believe the things we are reporting on is the result of Chinese state malfeasance".
Ill informed?
For its part, Huawei says the Chinese government would never ask it to install backdoors or other vulnerabilities into its foreign clients' systems, and even if such a request were made it would refuse.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Ryan Ding heads up Huawei's carrier business group, which is responsible for making and selling its mobile telecoms network kit And Mr Ding dismissed suggestions that this commitment would fall by the wayside if the US and China were to go to war.
"We have a country here that virtually uses no Huawei equipment and doesn't even know whether our 5G equipment is square or round, and yet it has been incessantly expressing security concerns over Huawei," he said.
"I don't want to speculate on whether they have other purposes with this kind of talk.
I would rather focus the limited time that I have on making better products."
Panorama: Can We Trust Huawei?
will be broadcast on BBC One at 20.30 BST this Monday.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mark Thomas: "We subjected the technology to the temperature 'threat' of high speed" UK engineers developing a novel propulsion system say their technology has passed another key milestone.
The Sabre air-breathing rocket engine is designed to drive space planes to orbit and take airliners around the world in just a few hours.
To work, it needs to manage very high temperature airflows, and the team at Reaction Engines Ltd has developed a heat-exchanger for the purpose.
This key element has just demonstrated an impressive level of performance.
It has shown the ability to handle the simulated conditions of flying at more than three times the speed of sound.
It did this by successfully quenching a 420C stream of gases in less than 1/20th of a second.
Image copyright Reaction Engines LTD Image caption Artwork: In the test set-up, the pre-cooler is fed by the exhaust gases from a military jet engine The REL group is confident its "pre-cooler" technology can now go on to show the same performance in conditions that simulate flying above five times the speed of sound, or Mach 5.
That would mean rapidly dumping the energy in a 1,000-degree airflow.
"We're now able to prove many of the claims we've been making as a business, backed up by very high-quality data," REL's CEO Mark Thomas told BBC News.
"In this most recent experiment, we've near-instantaneously transferred 1.5 Megawatts of heat energy - the equivalent of 1,000 homes' worth of heat energy."
The testing was conducted at a dedicated facility at the Colorado Air and Space Port in the US.
Image copyright Reaction Engines LTD Image caption Without the pre-cooler tech at the front, Sabre would struggle in the expected temperature regime Sabre can be thought of as a cross between a jet engine and a rocket engine.
At slow speeds and at low altitude, it would behave like a jet, burning its fuel in a stream of air scooped from the atmosphere.
At high speeds and at high altitude, it would then transition to full rocket mode, combining the fuel with a small supply of oxygen the vehicle had carried aloft.
The early air-breathing approach would deliver substantial weight savings, and allow a space plane, for example, to go straight to orbit without throwing away propellant stages on the way up, as rockets do now.
But the concept brings with it an immense heat challenge.
The faster the flow of air into the engine's intake during the high-speed ascent, the higher the temperature.
And the heat would rise still further once the flow was slowed and compressed prior to entering the combustion chambers.
Such conditions would ordinarily melt the insides of the engine.
Image copyright Reaction Engines LTD Image caption The chilled helium flowing through the pre-cooler's piping takes away the heat Sabre's pre-cooler seeks to solve this problem by efficiently, and swiftly, extracting the heat by first passing the intake gases through a tightly packed array of fine tubing.
This tubing is fed with chilled helium.
In 2012, REL put the pre-cooler in front of a viper jet engine and sucked ambient air through the heat-exchanger.
The gas stream immediately dropped to minus-150C.
Now, the company has flipped the set-up, putting the jet engine from an old F-4 Phantom fighter-bomber in front of the pre-cooler to drive hot gases directly across the piping array.
The completed Colorado experiment replicates the thermal conditions corresponding to flight at Mach 3.3, the record-breaking speed at which the American SR-71 Blackbird spy plane used to operate.
Importantly, though, the pre-cooler took out all the heat.
"This technology has wide application, not just in the immediate, obvious domain of high-speed flight but across the aerospace industry more generally, and into more commercial applications - anywhere there's a significant heat-management challenge and you're looking for ultra-lightweight, miniaturised, high-performance solutions," Mr Thomas said.
The Colorado tests continue.
Meanwhile, back in England, REL is progressing towards a demonstration of the core part of the engine, expected to get under way next year.
This core combustion section recently passed its preliminary design review under the eye of propulsion experts at the European Space Agency.
Esa has been brought in by the UK government to act as a technical auditor on the project.
The Oxfordshire company is developing Sabre with the support of BAE Systems, Rolls-Royce and Boeing.
All are keen to see the many years of refinement on the engine concept finally come to fruition.
Image copyright Reaction Engines LTD Image caption Artwork: There are many applications for this technology, but a reusable space plane would be one Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright AFP Image caption Immigration Minister Caroline Nokes has apologised for the data breach The Home Office has admitted breaching data protection rules when it launched the Windrush compensation scheme.
The department sent information to Windrush migrants in a way that meant their email addresses could be seen by other people.
An internal review has been launched and the matter has been referred to the Information Commissioner.
Immigration Minister Caroline Nokes apologised "unreservedly" for what she said was an "administrative error".
The data breach affected five batches of emails, each with 100 recipients, Ms Nokes added.
The recipients included Windrush migrants and other people who had asked to be kept informed about the compensation scheme, which was launched last week.
The Home Office revealed the error in a written statement, which also clarified other details about the scheme.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Windrush scandal made me want to end my life, says Glenda Caesar Who are the Windrush generation?
An estimated 500,000 people now living in the UK who arrived between 1948 and 1971 from countries in the Commonwealth, including the Caribbean, have been called the Windrush generation, in reference to a ship which brought workers to the UK in 1948.
They were granted indefinite leave to remain in 1971 but thousands were children travelling on their parents' passports, without their own documents.
Some later encountered difficulties proving their entitlement to live in the UK.
The problems intensified after changes to immigration law in 2012 which meant those without documents were asked for evidence to continue working, access services or stay in Britain.
Some were held in detention or removed despite living in the country for decades, resulting in a furious backlash over their treatment.
Image copyright Getty Images The rollout of technology which allows the police to gather data from mobile phones or laptops without using a password should be delayed, MSPs have said.
Police Scotland spent more than 500,000 buying from an Israeli firm 41 laptop-sized machines which override encryption on devices.
But the rollout was halted amid concerns using the technology could be illegal.
Now MSPs want further safeguards.
Holyrood's justice sub-committee on policing has published a report recommending the scheme is not restarted until greater clarity on the legality for their use is provided.
The report is also critical of the oversight given to the scheme by watchdog the Scottish Police Authority (SPA) and the actions of Police Scotland during trials in Edinburgh and Stirling.
The committee found that members of the public whose phones were seized and searched were not made aware their phones were to be searched using the so-called "cyber kiosks" as part of a trial.
'Gathering dust' Justice sub-committee convener John Finnie said: "Prior to the introduction of any new technology to be used for policing purposes, an assessment of both the benefits and the risks should have been carried out.
"It appears that, in relation to the introduction of cyber kiosks, only the benefits were presented by Police Scotland to the SPA, with the known risks not provided.
"The SPA, for its part, seems to have accepted the information provided with very little critical assessment.
"Even the most fundamental questions, such as the legal basis for using this technology, appear to have been totally overlooked.
He added: "This sub-standard process has resulted in over half a million pounds worth of equipment sitting gathering dust.
"Clearly, this is not an acceptable situation.
The sub-committee wants to work with the Scottish government and the stakeholder groups belatedly assembled to consider the implications of introducing cyber-kiosks to find a solution which would provide the necessary safeguards for the use of this new technology."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The "cyber kiosk" technology gives police the ability to override passwords on mobile phones Assistant Chief Constable Steve Johnson of Police Scotland said: "Like the justice sub-committee on policing, we have received written confirmation from the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service about the clear legal basis, and robust statutory regime, for the use of this much-needed technology.
"The rigorous scrutiny of this process by the justice sub-committee has added significant value to the development of Police Scotland's assurance and governance processes for the use of this necessary equipment.
Human rights He added: "As the Chief Constable has already made clear, there is a policing imperative for deploying the equipment to protect vulnerable victims and bring offenders to justice.
"However, he has also stated that he must be satisfied that privacy and human rights considerations have been transparently and satisfactorily addressed.
"The value of cyber kiosks in helping protect the most vulnerable people in society while tackling the most highly-sophisticated criminality cannot be underestimated."
Susan Deacon, chairwoman of the SPA , said: "The committee's consideration of this issue has been informative and the SPA will consider the report carefully and respond in due course.
"The SPA has already strengthened our arrangements for the oversight of policing policy and practice and will continue to do so."
Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo are being investigated in the UK for the way subscriptions to their online gaming services are renewed.
The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) said it was "concerned" about whether the firms are acting legally.
The CMA will also look at the firms' terms and conditions, as well as how they handle cancellations and refunds.
It is seeking testimony from customers about how they have been treated by the games companies.
Loyal service The CMA said its investigation was at an "early stage" and it had not yet formed a view as to whether the companies have broken consumer protection law.
In a statement, Microsoft said: "We have received a notification from the Competition and Markets Authority and will be co-operating fully with their investigation."
Nintendo and Sony have not yet responded to a BBC request for comment.
One key focus of the investigation was the widespread use of so-called "roll-over" contracts which automatically resubscribe customers at the end of a contract's term.
"Roll-over contracts are becoming more and more commonplace and it's essential that they work well for customers," said CMA boss Andrea Coscelli in a statement.
Mr Coscelli added that the CMA wanted to be sure that customers were being treated fairly when contracts are automatically renewed.
He added that the investigation was part of work the CMA was doing in response to a "super-complaint" by Citizens Advice about what has become known as the "loyalty penalty".
This can affect customers who stick with a brand for a long time, not only in gaming, because of costly exit fees or lengthy and difficult exit processes.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Due to secrecy surrounding the work of codebreaking at Bletchley Park, illustrator W Heath Robinson never knew the machine was named after him A World War Two codebreaking machine has been reconstructed after a seven-year project so it can run in public for the first time.
The Heath Robinson has been restored at The National Museum of Computing in Milton Keynes by a team of six.
The machine was an early attempt to automate code-cracking and, due to its complexity, was named after the illustrator W Heath Robinson.
Phil Hayes, of the museum, said the work was "quite an achievement".
He said it was completed using a hand-drawn circuit diagram along with replica circuits based on 1940s technology.
"It was quite an achievement because all we had was a few photographs and a hand-drawn diagram," said Mr Hayes, the chief engineer on the project.
"It was a challenge to get the machine to work."
Mr Hayes worked on the project alongside a team of five volunteers.
Image copyright National Museum of Computing Image caption Bletchley Park was the wartime home of the Government Code & Cypher School which broke the German Enigma and Lorenz codes The machine, which went into operation at Bletchley Park in June 1943, is acknowledged as the inspiration for Colossus, the world's first programmable computer.
Peter Higginson, a great nephew of W Heath Robinson, was due to attend a ceremony on Saturday to unveil the machine, which is on display at the museum.
The Colossus, the world's first programmable computer, was designed off the back of work to try to improve the Heath Robinson.
Image copyright National Museum of Computing Image caption Volunteer John Pether was among the team of six who worked on the machine Even after the launch of Colossus in 1944, the Heath Robinson continued to develop and was used in tackling messages sent between Hitler and the German High Command.
At the end of World War Two there were two "super Robinsons" in use and another two under development.
The machine was operational until the 1950s.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Google's ethics board proved controversial from the start An independent group set up to oversee Google's artificial intelligence efforts, has been shut down less than a fortnight after it was launched.
The Advanced Technology External Advisory Council (ATEAC) was due to look at the ethics around AI, machine learning and facial recognition.
One member resigned and there were calls for another to be removed.
The debacle raises questions about whether firms should set up such bodies.
Google told the BBC: "It's become clear that in the current environment, ATEAC can't function as we wanted.
"So we're ending the council and going back to the drawing board.
We'll continue to be responsible in our work on the important issues that AI raises, and will find different ways of getting outside opinions on these topics."
There had been an outcry over the appointment of Kay Coles James, who is president of conservative thinktank The Heritage Foundation.
Thousands of Google employees signed a petition calling for her removal, over what they described as "anti-trans, anti-LGBTQ and anti-immigrant" comments.
At the weekend, board member Prof Alessandro Acquisti resigned, tweeting: "While I'm devoted to research grappling with key ethical issues of fairness, rights and inclusion in AI, I don't believe this is the right forum for me to engage in this important work."
The panel had been announced at a conference at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and had planned to meet four times in 2019.
One of the eight members, Joanna Bryson, a professor from Bath University, expressed anger at Google's decision to pull the plug.
She tweeted: "I thought there were enough smart people at Google that there must be some process for either communicating or improving decisions.
But I was wrong, and the people who called me naive were right."
Video The BBC's Rory Cellan-Jones goes hands-on with the new phones in Samsung's Galaxy S10 range and takes a brief look at the firm's new foldable-screened model.
Read more
Video A system which uses a combination of artificial intelligence (AI) and high resolution fixed cameras could change the way some sports like basketball are covered.
Developed by Playsight the system can track players, the ball and events like passes and three-point field goals.
Coaches and officials can also replay game footage on court.
The system is currently being tested by the British Basketball League.
BBC Click finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video China's biggest hotpot restaurant chain by sales, Haidilao, started almost 25 years ago and has already established more than 360 restaurants around the world, including in Japan, the US and Taiwan.
The popular chain has opened Beijing's first robot-aided hotpot restaurant to much fanfare and is looking to spread the concept across its other outlets if it proves successful.
Reporter: Stephen McDonell; series produced by Pamela Parker.
Video Spatial is a collaborative prototype environment where people can appear to be in the same room even if they are thousands of miles apart.
When combined with an augmented reality headset like Microsofts HoloLens, it allows people to share the same images, videos and even 3D models which appear to float in the space around them.
BBC Clicks Spencer Kelly finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
The demand for on-demand TV has never been higher.
Disney has announced its rival to the likes of Netflix and Amazon Prime - and they're calling it Disney+.
In March, Apple announced its own streaming service: Apple TV+.
But in a market that's getting more and more crowded, can they all survive?
Why are Disney and Apple getting into streaming TV?
Image copyright Pixar Disney has a big advantage because it has decades of filmmaking experience already, according to Shona Ghosh, senior tech reporter at Business Insider.
"It costs a lot of money to make popular shows and Disney is an expert in offering really well-known film and TV franchises," she says.
Disney can draw on its classic movies, as well as Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars - and now Fox films.
It's thought that as contracts expire with other streaming services, Disney will slowly take its films off the likes of Netflix and make them exclusive to Disney+.
Netflix has already axed its remaining Marvel shows.
There will also be shows just for the streaming service - including a new Star Wars spin-off, expected to debut when the service goes live in North America in November.
Image copyright Disney For Apple, the incentive is slightly different: iPhone sales have been slowing down.
It's why Shona thinks they are looking at new ways to stay at the top.
"Apple knows it has a lot of people that buy iPhones, iPads and Macs.
Also there's Apple Music," Shona tells Radio 1 Newsbeat.
"So because it knows it has trust as a provider of that stuff, it's branching out into shows and thinking it can really add something for the people that buy their devices."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Best known for its mobile devices, Apple wants to prove it can adapt to stay at the top Shona thinks Apple is already realising how difficult that task will be.
"It's ambitious for a tech company that isn't really known for providing content itself to try and commission shows," she says.
"I'm not sure it's going all that smoothly - they still haven't announced the full roster of shows that will be available.
"Apple being Apple I'm sure it will go smoothly eventually, but it's possible it won't work out."
What does it mean for customers?
Image copyright Disney "There has probably been a golden period where Netflix was the predominant, very popular streaming service.
But now with so much choice, a lot will be splintered up," Shona thinks.
So does that mean we'll have to spend more?
"If Netflix is no longer top dog it can't suddenly turn around and raise its prices.
It has to think about the competition.
"On the flip side you won't have one platform where you can find everything.
You may have to have multiple subscriptions."
What does the future of TV streaming look like?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The battle for your screen time is more competitive than ever With Netflix, Amazon, Disney, Apple, and even the BBC and ITV getting involved, there will soon be loads of streaming options.
But Shona thinks the future of how we watch TV might actually end up looking familiar.
"With all these different companies offering streaming, you may eventually end up paying for something that looks a bit like your parents' Sky or cable service from 10 or 15 years ago."
That could mean streaming services will get bundled together into packages.
"People don't have the money to pay 10 or 15 a month for Netflix, then another 10 for the combined streaming service being offered by the BBC and ITV, then Amazon Prime as well - that would get very expensive."
Image copyright BT Image caption When BT Sport first entered the UK sports market it was free for its mobile and internet customers And TV content could be used as an incentive for firms trying to get you to buy other products.
It's a technique we've already started to see - with the likes of BT offering BT Sport for free to its mobile and internet customers when it launched.
"There's a rumour that if you're already an Apple device owner, you may not have to pay extra for some of, if not all of, Apple's streaming services," says Shona.
"So if you're already paying for the expensive device, Apple is making it more worth your while by giving you some content for free on top of that."
Amazon Prime does similar, offering TV content alongside free delivery on its massive online shop.
It's a technique that could be key for streaming services that want to be successful.
Will all of the streaming services survive?
Image copyright Netflix Apple and Disney are big names and some of its rivals are already feeling the pressure.
"I think there will be some companies that do fall by the wayside," adds Shona.
"Netflix is spending a lot of money producing great content - whether it can keep it up remains to be seen.
"Businesses like Amazon have many other elements it can rely on, not just content, whereas something like Netflix will be under a lot of pressure.
"You'll have to wait to see whether consumers buy into this idea that Apple is akin to something like a Disney.
"But people have bought in to Netflix, a brand new service that's evolved from being a DVD service to being this content powerhouse.
"Companies are capable of pulling it off, but it's possible that not everyone will survive."
Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter.
Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Duke of Sussex has spoken at length about the issue of mental health Prince Harry has called for a ban on Fortnite, saying the survival game beloved by teenagers around the world, was "created to addict".
His words add to a growing debate among health workers, governments and lobby groups about whether gaming can be harmful to health.
The remarks come just before the Gaming Bafta Awards, one of the biggest nights in the UK's gaming calendar, which take place in London on Thursday evening.
But is he right?
What did Prince Harry say?
At an event at a YMCA in west London, the Duke of Sussex launched a scathing attack on social media and gaming.
Of Fortnite, he said: "That game shouldn't be allowed.
Where is the benefit of having it in your household?
"It's created to addict, an addiction to keep you in front of a computer for as long as possible.
It's so irresponsible.
"It's like waiting for the damage to be done and kids turning up on your doorsteps and families being broken down."
He added that social media was "more addictive than alcohol and drugs".
What is Fortnite?
Image copyright Getty Images The game has become a global phenomenon and the aim is simple - survive for as long as possible.
Each match has a total of 99 other players with the same goals and lasts around 20 minutes, depending on how successful you are.
It has 200 million registered players worldwide and is free to download, but players can spend money on in-game purchases.
Players can play alone, as part of a four-person squad or a 20-member team, either with friends or people they do not know.
What do doctors think?
Earlier this month, a GP told an 11-year-old boy that he was "prescribing" a two-week ban from computer games such as Fortnite and Minecraft.
Dr Amir Khan said that he was concerned about the impact gaming was having on the boy's life.
It was a light-hearted attempt to draw attention to a serious issue but, anecdotally, more doctors are seeing links between gaming and effects on both the physical and mental health of young people.
And it is not only youngsters who are affected.
Research shows that 200 divorces in the UK from January to September 2018 mentioned addiction to Fortnite and other online games as one of the reasons for relationship breakdown.
However, Scottish university researcher Andrew Reid said he thought that the game was not "addictive" and suggested that using the term could stigmatise regular video game players.
He added that some research showed "positive characteristics of play".
What do the gamers say about addiction?
There are plenty of gamers who play for long periods of time and say it has no impact on their wider social lives or health.
But some have had enough.
Matus Mikus joined Game Quitters, an online forum made up of thousands of people who have turned their backs on games, after his relationship broke down because he was spending too much time gaming.
James Good is a self-confessed gaming addict, once spending 32 hours playing without a break.
The problem led to him falling behind at university.
"My grades were slipping as a result of playing too many games.
I didn't eat, sleep or leave my room.
I escaped my problems via games," he recently told a group of MPs.
And he said the effect of playing was triggering physical responses.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption There are an estimated 32.4 million gamers in the UK.
"Games fire up response systems in your brain and other things don't bring you as much joy," he told the MPs.
"I was thinking, 'Why would I spend time with my friends when I can play video games?'.
"It felt good to get points, trophies, beat people.
It fuelled my competitiveness - but I realised I wasn't truly happy."
James admits he became depressed, but stopped short of saying that gaming was the root cause.
He added that gaming as a teenager was not a problem, because he combined it with an active life, playing sports and going to Scouts, and his parents helped him manage his time.
Being without parental guidance at university appears to be the trigger that turned his gaming from a much-loved activity to an obsession.
He too turned to Game Quitters and admits to having withdrawal symptoms when he followed its challenge for new members to give up gaming for 90 days.
"I was getting headaches, moods and I had to lock my computer in a cupboard," he said.
What's the view of the games firms?
The BBC has asked Epic Games, the makers of Fortnite, for comment but has not yet had a response.
Gaming is booming and the UK games industry is worth a record 5.7bn, in part thanks to Fortnite, according to new figures from gaming trades body Ukie, which said that there was "little evidence" gaming causes harm to health.
Dr Jo Twist, Ukie's chief executive and chairwoman of Bafta Games, said: "We care about players.
"We want to help parents and carers who don't play games themselves to feel better equipped and knowledgeable about safe and responsible game play, and the positive impact games can have on people's lives."
She added that game age ratings "should be taken seriously" and that parents and carers should use online resources to ensure their children played in a responsible way.
Ukie points to research conducted by Prof Andrew Przybylski, an experimental psychologist at the Oxford Internet Institute, who has said that only 0.3% of gamers might experience problems controlling the time they spend playing video games.
He told the BBC: Large scale research studies on the topic indicate that games may not be inherently addictive and should best be thought of as a coping mechanism for, rather than cause of, mental distress.
Placing undue blame on games risks stigmatising a popular hobby regularly pursued by nearly two billion people."
The World Health Organization disagrees and last year recognised excessive gaming as a mental health disorder.
Does gaming need greater government scrutiny?
Image copyright Getty Images The Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee is currently interviewing gamers, games firms and other experts as part of its ongoing inquiry into technology addiction.
It is due to report back on its findings later this year.
Chairman Damian Collins told the BBC ahead of that: "We have invited Epic Games, the company behind Fortnite, to give evidence to our investigation, which is examining the addictive nature of gaming, as well as links between gaming and gambling.
"We hope that Epic will accept our invitation.
We will certainly raise with them the significant concerns that Prince Harry has expressed about Fortnite, and how they respond to his call for it to be banned."
And it is not just the UK that is looking into the links between gaming and the health of youngsters.
China, the world's largest gaming market, is increasingly concerned about addiction and the impact of gaming on children's eyesight, and has taken strong measures to crack down on the issue.
China's tech giant Tencent has tightened checks on the age of people playing online games - checking identities and ages against a police database.
Children under 12 are only able to play for an hour a day.
Older children can play for up to two hours, but not during a night-time curfew.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption There is a wrong and right way to carry out workplace surveillance Is workplace surveillance about improving productivity or simply a way to control staff and weed out poor performers?
Courtney Hagen Ford, 34, left her job working as a bank teller because she found the surveillance she was under was "dehumanising".
Her employer logged her keystrokes and used software to monitor how many of the customers she helped went on to take out loans and fee-paying accounts.
"The sales pressure was relentless," she recalls.
"The totality was horrible."
She decided selling fast food would be better, but ironically, left the bank to do a doctorate in surveillance technology.
Courtney is not alone in her dislike of this kind of surveillance, but it's on the rise around the world as firms look to squeeze more productivity from their workers and become more efficient.
Image copyright Courtney Hagen Ford Image caption Courtney Hagen Ford says having her every move monitored was "dehumanising" More than half of companies with over $750m (574m) in annual revenue used "non-traditional" monitoring techniques on staff last year, says Brian Kropp, vice-president of research firm Gartner.
These include tools to analyse e-mails, conversations, computer usage, and employee movements around the office.
Some firms are also monitoring heart rates and sleep patterns to see how these affect performance.
In 2015, 30% used such tools.
Next year, Mr Kropp expects 80% will.
And workforce analytics will be a $1.87bn industry by 2025, says San Francisco's Grand Review Research.
So why is business so keen?
Ben Waber, chief executive of Humanyze, a Boston workplace analytics company, says it gives firms the ability to assess how their staff are performing and interacting, which can be good for the firm but also good for employees themselves.
Image copyright Robin Lubbock Image caption Humanyze's Ben Waber thinks firms need to find our more about how they function His company gathers "data exhaust" left by employees' email and instant messaging apps, and uses name badges equipped with radio-frequency identification (RFID) devices and microphones.
These can check how much time you spend talking, your volume and tone of voice, even if you dominate conversations.
While this may sound intrusive - not to say creepy - proponents argue that it can also protect employees against bullying and sexual harassment.
Humanyze calls these badges "Fitbit for your career".
Some of this data analysis can produce unexpected results, says Mr Waber.
For example, one large tech client discovered that coders who sat at 12-person lunch tables tended to outperform those who regularly sat at four-person tables.
The larger tables led to more interaction with staff from other parts of the company, he says, and this improved idea sharing.
Larger lunch tables were "driving more than a 10% difference in performances".
A fact that would probably have gone undetected without such data analysis.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The chip allows employees to open doors and use the photocopier without a traditional pass card Over the last few years a Stockholm co-working space called Epicenter has gone much further and holds popular "chipping parties", where people can have RFID-enabled rice-sized microchips implanted in their hands.
They can use the implants to access electronically controlled doors, swap contacts, or monitor how typing speed correlates with heart rate, says Epicenter's Hannes Sjblad, who has an implant himself.
The implant "cannot transmit any data unless you put it within a centimetre of a reader, so the person with the implant controls when it can be read", he says.
Embedded chips may seem extreme, but it is a relatively small step from ID cards and biometrics to such devices, says Prof Jeffrey Stanton, a University of Syracuse academic who researches work-related stress.
As long as such schemes are voluntary, "there will probably be a growing number of convenience-oriented uses such that a substantial number of workers would opt to have a chip implanted", he believes.
But if embedded chips are used to reduce slack time or rest breaks, "we are probably in the bad zone", he says.
And if surveillance tools "take away autonomy", that's when they prove most unpopular.
Image copyright Gartner Image caption Gartner's Brian Kropp says bad communication can scupper monitoring projects A lot depends on how such monitoring initiatives are communicated, Gartner's Mr Kropp argues.
In 2016, Britain's Telegraph newspaper installed heat and motion monitoring devices under employees' desks.
While management said it was to find out which desks were occupied for energy management purposes, staff thought they were been spied on and staged a revolt.
The devices were removed after 24 hours.
If bosses don't communicate effectively, employees assume the worst, Mr Kropp says.
But if they're open about the information they're collecting - and what they're doing with it - 46% of employees are "generally okay with it".
Although many such monitoring schemes use anonymised data and participation is voluntary, many staff remain sceptical and fear an erosion of their civil liberties.
In less liberal countries, workers are not given any choice at all.
But for some, the benefits are obvious.
Image copyright Jessica Johnson Image caption Jessica Johnson says her workplace tracking software helps her cope with narcolepsy "I've got a condition called narcolepsy," explains Jessica Johnson, 34, from Canberra, Australia.
She falls asleep for short periods during the day, then is disorientated when she wakes.
This "impacts my memory, my ability to focus and concentrate," she says.
She worked with an insurance company where employees used a programme called Timely to track billable hours.
It helped her quickly find what she had been doing before she fell asleep, and pick up where she left off.
"You install it on your phone, and then on your computer, and that's how you get all the raw data," says Mathias Mikkelsen, Timely's Norwegian chief executive.
More Technology of Business "Machine learning algorithms analyse all the data, and create beautiful charts," he says.
You can then see how much time you're wasting in unproductive meetings, say, or replying to e-mails.
You could show managers you were "spending so much time on stuff that's not what you were hired to do," says Mr Mikkelsen.
So workplace surveillance could be empowering for staff and useful for companies looking to become more efficient and profitable.
But implemented in the wrong way, it could also become an unpopular tool of oppression that proves counterproductive.
Follow Technology of Business editor Matthew Wall on Twitter and Facebook
Image copyright @Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption Pikachu has been synonymous with Pokemon since the TV show began in 1997 "It's become my everything."
Micah Yates is a 25-year-old art graduate living in Berea, Kentucky.
She graduated from college in 2016 and set up shop at home.
All of her paintings can be found in an online gallery where she is known as Instagram artist Lunumbra.
And with her paintings sometimes selling for upwards of $300 (230) a piece, you might be surprised to hear that she found her success painting Pokemon cards.
Image copyright Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption Micah takes Pokemon cards and paints over them, using the card itself as the canvas to extend the original artwork.
"I started in 2014 when I was going to school for art," Micah explained.
"I had just gotten into a card game called Magic: The Gathering.
"The painted card community with Magic was thriving.
I was also into Pokemon, so I tried to find the same thing but with Pokemon cards.
Image copyright @Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption "Most of the cards are donated to me.
It's nice to use a card someone has already loved."
"I couldn't find it, so I decided to do it myself.
I painted 10 cards to play around with and posted them on Reddit.
"It went viral overnight.
People were asking me to paint cards for them and paying me, and it hasn't stopped.
Image copyright @Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption Left: One of the first 10 cards Micah painted in 2014.
Right: the same card, painted again in 2018.
"I sell two or three a week.
"They usually go for between $70 and $90, but my Snorlax card went for $300.
I don't know why - I think people just like Snorlax!
"The other big ones were the Umbreon and Espeon pair.
"They combine into one artwork and sold at $400 for both.
I really like that pair - it's hard to make the cards match up like that because the artworks are different."
Image copyright @Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption Micah's reimagining of the cards, bringing together two separate artworks into one combined picture "The artwork on Pokemon cards is unbelievable," she added.
"I always wondered what was behind the square on the Pokemon card.
This is an opportunity to take the border off the artwork and see what's behind it.
Image copyright @Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption "I like to make it interesting but I never want to take away from the original artwork."
"It takes maybe 10 coats of paint that I've thinned down.
"I want them to not have texture.
I want them to look like they were that way forever.
Image copyright @Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption Micah revealed that "shiny" Pokemon cards are completely holographic underneath the text "I was not a painter when I started this, I actually hated painting.
"I went to school to be an illustrator.
I wanted to be an animator.
But this took off, and I'm very thankful."
Image copyright @Lunumbra/The Pokemon Company Image caption "When I started painting water I hated it... but now it's one of my favourite things to paint."
If you're interested in how she does it, Micah helpfully shares videos of her method online, with one such video being viewed more than 500,000 times.
"I'm very lucky to have so many supporters that are interested in what I do," she said.
All images copyright as stated
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Amazon countries say giving control of the domain to the tech giant could impact on their sovereignty Online retail giant Amazon and the governments of eight South American countries have been given a final deadline to reach an agreement over how to use the ".amazon" web address extension after a seven-year dispute.
What will happen next?
It's a name that evokes epic proportions: the world's largest rainforest; a global tech company; and now a diplomatic saga nearing its end.
This is the battle of the Amazon and it starts back in 2012.
The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), the body that polices the world wide web's address system, decided to expand its list of generic top-level domains (gTLD) - the bit that comes after the dot in a web address.
The new rules allowed companies to apply for brand new extensions, offering internet users and businesses more ways to personalise their website name and addresses.
But eight countries containing the Amazon rainforest objected to the retail giant's plans concerning the new .amazon domain name.
Image caption The case is pitting Amazon rainforest countries against the US tech giant The governments of Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Peru, Suriname and Venezuela - all members of the Amazon Cooperation Treaty Organization (ACTO) - say that relinquishing the domain exclusively to Amazon could impact on matters of their sovereignty.
Diplomats have told the BBC that they are not seeking to deny Amazon use of the domain but are proposing a "shared governance" of it.
According to their proposals, Amazon would be immediately allowed to use the domains which are relevant to its commercial interests, such as "books.amazon" or "kindle.amazon".
But each country in turn would be entitled to use domains which relate to their cultural heritage - imagine Amazon nations coming together to promote the region under the "tourism.amazon" domain, for example.
Crucially, the countries want to establish a committee in which both Amazon and the eight countries would have the opportunity to object to new top-level domains in the future.
But Amazon has rejected these proposals, instead suggesting that the .amazon extension be used in conjunction with two letters representing each country - br.amazon for Brazil, for example.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Users can now end their website names with more than 1,200 new extensions, including .blog and .you The company has declined to comment ahead of the 7 April deadline, but pointed to previous remarks by its vice-president of public policy, Brian Huseman, who vowed that Amazon "will not use the TLDs in a confusing manner".
Amazon has promised to work with governments to identify and block the use of "names that touch national sensitivities" and has pledged to support a new top-level domain using local terms such as .amazonia and .amazonas.
And last year it tried to persuade the countries by promising them $5m (3.8m) worth of free Kindle e-readers and hosting services.
They turned down the offer.
In a letter sent to ICANN in March, the Ecuadorian Ambassador to the US, Francisco Carrin, said: "We are not looking for financial compensation.
Nor are we after ex-gratia concessions to use one or a few second-level domains.
"It is a matter of sovereignty for many of us, and the offer to share the TLDs with the company Amazon Inc. is already a compromise."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Other contentious cases of geographical TLDs include .patagonia and .africa The current dispute follows similar cases already settled.
In 2013, for example, the US-based outdoor clothing brand Patagonia withdrew an application for the .patagonia extension after objection from Argentina and Chile.
A Mexico-based company had to reach a financial agreement with the town of Bar, Montenegro, in order to obtain consent to register the .bar extension.
And in 2016, ICANN granted the registry of the .africa gTLD to a charity based in Johannesburg, South Africa, after it received support from three quarters of African Union countries.
But the Amazon saga has been quite unlike any other.
More Technology of Business Amazon's application was initially deferred, but Brazilian and Peruvian diplomats managed to overturn it by securing the support of the group that represents governments within ICANN - the GAC.
That in itself required diplomatic pressure to change the US position from supporting Amazon Inc. to remaining neutral in the dispute.
Then Amazon appealed and a review panel ordered ICANN to make a decision by reaching its own conclusions.
If the parties don't reach a consensus by 7 April, Amazon will have two weeks to argue its case again before ICANN makes up its mind.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption ICANN is under pressure to resist the push of governments concerning geographic domain names The case is prompting questions about the independence of ICANN.
Amazon's Brian Huseman told ICANN that "globally, hundreds (if not thousands) of brands have names similar to regions, land formations, mountains, towns, cities, and other geographic places".
These could be put off applying for new gTLDs because of "uncertainty" over ICANN policy over geographic names.
The US-based body is under pressure to resist the push of governments and some believe it might be more open to arguments coming from the business sector this time around.
But Daniel Sepulveda, who served as a US Ambassador, deputy assistant secretary of state, and co-ordinator for communications and information policy from 2013 to 2017, says: "The ICANN community would make a mistake if it diminishes Brazil's concerns or engages in aggressive libertarian rhetoric".
He believes ICANN needs to strike a fine balance between the interests and freedoms of businesses, organisations and individuals using the internet, without alienating anyone.
"This is a sensitive situation that requires diplomacy, the exercise of mutual respect, and creative mechanisms for ensuring all sides feel fairly treated," he says.
So if Amazon and the eight nations don't reach agreement before the deadline, ICANN has a very difficult decision to make - one that might end up pleasing no-one.
Follow Technology of Business editor Matthew Wall on Twitter and Facebook
Image copyright Getty Images Step inside the offices of Bluescreen and you'll find some of the UK's most talented young hackers, dragged from a world of crime to fight for the other side.
These computer experts have swapped the confines of their bedrooms for a fairly ordinary looking cyber-security company in Plymouth.
Bluescreen employs hackers the authorities have deemed worthy of a second chance, who pit their wits against some of the anonymous online criminals they used to see as brothers in arms.
Image caption Jack stole personal information from thousands of people When Jack was 19 years old, the police sent five squad cars, a tech team and a riot van to his home.
"It was about 08:10 in the morning.
I'd had the most awful night's sleep and I'd just started watching The Lion King.
"It didn't even get past the intro before my bedroom door flew open and 10 police officers came in to arrest me.
"I was not expecting that on any day of my life."
The police were there for a good reason: when he was 16, Jack had stolen personal information from about 1,000 people.
He told police he'd never had any intention of using it for his own gain; to him, it was just an intellectual exercise.
Stories like this are not uncommon at Bluescreen IT, which has a direct link with the police to find hackers in need of direction.
These are young men who have been accused of serious crimes, but instead of being taken through the criminal justice system, they've been given a second chance.
About 15 people work in the Security Operations Centre, a handful of whom have been referred to the company as hackers who aren't malicious in nature and are deemed capable of reform.
Image caption Cameron launched cyber attacks, and was caught by the National Crime Agency Another employee, Cameron, was arrested on his way to school when he was just 14 years old.
Officers from the National Crime Agency had planned the sting so that Cameron would be out of the house, and unable to destroy his hard drives in the event he heard them coming.
"Up to that point my biggest worry was that I hadn't done my maths homework," he said.
"I was walking to school when I heard my name being called.
I turned round and there was a man in a suit walking behind me.
"Then I heard him say my name louder, so I turned around and said 'yeah?'
and that's when he told me I was under arrest.
"I turned around and there were five more officers spread out across the grass.
"I just didn't realise that what I'd done was that serious.
It was all just one big joke - messing around - it never seemed like I was actually causing any real harm.
I soon found out how serious it was."
"Grey hat hackers" like Jack and Cameron are seen as having committed their crimes for reasons that weren't to do with personal gain or cyber-terrorism.
Sometimes it might have been a practical joke, or perhaps the motive was to launch a server-debilitating attack.
Now they try to stop others - using the methods they once employed - from wreaking the same havoc.
Image copyright Getty Images Hackers' hats White hat hackers - These are the nice guys of the hacking world.
They know what they're doing and they use their talents for good, such as getting rid of viruses or legitimately testing the security systems of companies and governments.
Black hat hackers - The bad guys.
They're the ones who steal your bank details and sell them on the dark web.
They usually hack for personal gain, although it could be some form of cyber-espionage or protest.
Grey hat hackers - Somewhere in between.
They might hack a company without permission, only to point out the flaws without exploiting them.
What they're doing is still illegal.
The route into a life of hacking isn't always the same, but a lot of the stories are similar, and they often start with gaming.
When he was younger, Cameron liked to tinker with things to see how they worked.
"I didn't like my high scores being beaten in video games - I always had to be the best at them."
He started making "mods" to video games - changes to the code that enabled him to get higher scores - which he said led him to online forums, and then darker areas of the internet.
"I ended up launching cyber attacks, and was later caught by the National Crime Agency," Cameron said.
You may also be interested in: Image caption The team at Bluescreen has some big personalities, and people from vastly different backgrounds For Jack, now 23, it was his "laziness" that led him into the world of computing.
"I was 12.
We'd just started doing algebra, but I didn't want to do it.
"I went home and tried to make a calculator for algebra.
It didn't really go well, but that is my earliest memory of that side of things.
"I was trying to cut corners any way I could.
Rather than studying, I would try and make it look like I was studying and doing well.
"I'd be failing in all my classes but pull it out of the bag at the last minute.
After a while the school had had enough of me.
"I got my five GCSEs in Year 10 and then the school expelled me."
Just four years after his arrest, Jack is now working at an advanced level, carrying out processes like penetration testing - trying to break into clients' servers to find weaknesses.
He and Cameron, now 19, also defend against incoming attacks - an area where their hacking experience comes in handy.
Image caption Det Sgt John Atkin found himself attending the same course as Cameron, who he arrested in 2014 One of the more surreal moments in Cameron's first year at Bluescreen was going on the same course as the police officer who had arrested him in 2014.
Det Sgt John Atkin from the South West Regional Cyber Crime Unit was attending a Bluescreen security course as part of his own professional development.
Cameron said: "It's unbelievable - what are the chances of that?
"I never would've thought when he was arresting me as a 14-year-old kid, that we'd one day be on the same course.
"There's an element of learning from each other now.
Whenever something comes up in forensics he's the man to explain it best; we're lucky to have him there.
"And then for the attacks I can explain it better.
"We always got along, but I don't think John appreciated much of what I did."
Det Sgt Atkin has "no problem" meeting the hackers he's arrested because the whole point of the police Cyber Futures programme is to "try and develop people".
"What you can see here is that by working with Cameron and his family, and providing the support and knowledge we have, we're able to deliver and put him in a place where his future is set, rather than where he could have been.
"Cameron's a good kid so he's doing really well; the future's bright for him.
Hopefully, he'll take this forward and then the world's his oyster."
Image caption The Security Operations Centre is where the analysts defend incoming attacks There's a relaxed atmosphere when you walk into the Security Operations Centre, but it's serious work.
Three monitors on the wall detail which of Bluescreen's clients are being attacked, and how serious the threat is.
The clients, mostly smaller and medium-sized businesses from around the South West, are given codenames like "Black Mamba" or "Green Starfish" - usually a colour and an animal.
The business has just won part of a 500,000 grant from the Department of Culture, Media and Sport to encourage more diverse candidates into cyber-security jobs, meaning it can keep growing, and potentially take on more former hackers.
As apprentices, employees like Jack and Cameron start on a wage of about 650 a month, but after five years of experience they could easily be earning close to 50,000 a year.
But for some reformed hackers, moving into a professional environment can be a big adjustment: even getting out of bed on time is sometimes a bit of a struggle for young men used to working unsupervised, to their own schedule and their own rules.
Now they must do regular office hours as part of a team dedicated to protecting the interests of the company's clients.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Adjusting to a nine-to-five job isn't always easy for Bluescreen's former hackers It's not just a challenge for the new recruits: some of the hackers who arrive at Bluescreen are autistic, which isn't something that management have had much experience of dealing with.
"It's been a really hard journey for us and a massive learning curve," said the company's chief operating officer, Richard Cashmore.
"We've had to adapt how we manage people - if they need to work in a certain space, we'll go and do that.
"It's about give and take - we can't bend over too far for them because we need them to be employable, but we meet in the middle."
Bluescreen sees itself as a place to develop young people, give them a second chance, and be a haven for those with nowhere else to go.
"It makes me really proud when they achieve industry-recognised qualifications," said Mr Cashmore.
"It's a big deal for them and it's a big deal for us, because we invest a lot of time and emotional effort into these guys, and seeing them succeed after everything we've all been through is very satisfying."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Do we need to rethink our approach to cybersecurity?
Billions are being lost to cyber-crime each year, and the problem seems to be getting worse.
So could we ever create unhackable computers beyond the reach of criminals and spies?
Israeli researchers are coming up with some interesting solutions.
The key to stopping the hackers, explains Neatsun Ziv, vice president of cyber-security products at Tel Aviv-based Check Point Security Technologies, is to make hacking unprofitable.
"We're currently tracking 150 hacking groups a week, and they're making $100,000 a week each," he tells the BBC.
"If we raise the bar, they lose money.
They don't want to lose money."
This means making it difficult enough for hackers to break in that they choose easier targets.
And this has been the main principle governing the cyber-security industry ever since it was invented - surrounding businesses with enough armour plating to make it too time-consuming for hackers to drill through.
The rhinoceros approach, you might call it.
But some think the industry needs to be less rhinoceros and more chameleon, camouflaging itself against attack.
"We need to bring prevention back into the game," says Yuval Danieli, vice president of customer services at Israeli cyber-security firm Morphisec.
"Most of the world is busy with detection and remediation - threat hunting - instead of preventing the cyber-attack before it occurs."
Morphisec - born out of research done at Ben-Gurion University - has developed what it calls "moving target security".
It's a way of scrambling the names, locations and references of each file and software application in a computer's memory to make it harder for malware to get its teeth stuck in to your system.
The mutation occurs each time the computer is turned on so the system is never configured the same way twice.
The firm's tech is used to protect the London Stock Exchange and Japanese industrial robotics firm Yaskawa, as well as bank and hotel chains.
But the most effective way to secure a computer is to isolate it from local networks and the internet completely - so-called air gapping.
You would need to gain physical access to the computer to steal data.
Image copyright Ben-Gurion University Image caption Yuval Elovici believes that no way of protecting a computer is 100% reliable Yuval Elovici, head of the cyber-security research centre at Ben-Gurion University, warns that even this method isn't 100% reliable.
"The obvious way to attack an air-gapped machine is to compromise it during the supply chain when it is being built," he says.
"So you then have a compromised air-gapped computer in a nuclear power station that came with the malware - the attacker never has to enter the premises."
Indeed, in October last year, Bloomberg Businessweek alleged that Chinese spies had managed to insert chips on servers made in China that could be activated once the machines were plugged in overseas.
The servers were manufactured for US firm Super Micro Computer Inc.
The story suggested that Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Apple were among 30 companies, as well as government agencies and departments, that had used the suspect servers.
Apple and Amazon strenuously denied the claims.
More Technology of Business While air gapping is impractical for many businesses, so-called "co-operative cyber-security" is being seen as another way to thwart the hackers.
Imagine there are four firms working together: Barclays, Microsoft, Google and a cyber-security company, say.
Each of the four firms gives a piece of data to each other.
They don't know what the data is that they are protecting, but they hold it in their networks.
In order to access sensitive information from any of the firms, attackers would need to hack all four networks and work out which piece of data is missing, to be able to make any sense of the files stolen.
"If the likelihood of breaking into a single network is 1%, then to penetrate four different networks, the likelihood would become 0.000001%," explains Alon Cohen, founder of cyber-security firm nsKnox and former chief technology officer for the Israeli military.
Image copyright Check Point Image caption Check Point's Neatsun Ziv believes "there's no such thing as an unhackable computer" He calls the concept "crypto-splitting", and it involves encoding each sequence of data as thousands of numbers then dividing these cryptographic puzzles between the four companies.
"You would need to solve thousands of puzzles in order to put the data back together," says Mr Cohen.
Check Point also collaborates with large multinational technology firms in a data-sharing alliance in the belief that co-operation is key to staying one step ahead of the hackers.
But while such approaches show promise, Check Point's Neatsun Ziv concludes that: "There is no such thing as an unhackable computer, the only thing that exists is the gap between what you build and what people know how to hack today."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption What could happen if the UK's 5G networks suffered a major cyber-attack?
There is always a trade-off between usability and security.
The more secure and hack-proof a computer is, the less practical it is in a networked world.
"Yes, we can build an unhackable computer but it would be like a tank with so many shields that it wouldn't move anywhere," says Morphisec's Mr Danieli.
The concern for the cyber-security industry is that as the nascent "internet of things" develops, powered by 5G mobile connectivity, the risk of cyber-attack will only increase.
And as artificial intelligence becomes more widespread, it will become just another tool hackers can exploit.
The arms race continues.
Follow Technology of Business editor Matthew Wall on Twitter and Facebook
Image copyright SOPA Images British financial technology company Revolut has been in the news frequently in recent months.
The firm, which provides mobile app-based current accounts as an alternative to physical banks, has been referred by some as a "tech super star".
Why is Revolut so controversial?
What is Revolut?
Revolut offers a range of digital banking services in a mobile app targeted at young tech-savvy users, including: Transferring money abroad in 29 currencies A pre-paid debit card that enables cash machine withdrawals in 120 countries A crypto-currency exchange allowing users to convert currencies into Bitcoin, Litecoin, Ethereum, Bitcoin Cash or XRP Vaults for budgeting and saving money Mobile phone and overseas medical insurance With standard accounts, users get a free UK current account and a free euro IBAN account.
There are no fees on exchanging in 24 currencies, up to 5,000 a month, and you can withdraw up to 200 a month from cash machines.
Revolut also offers monthly subscription plans with higher thresholds for no fees, as well as instant access to crypto-currencies, cash back, travel and concierge service.
Revolut's services are currently only available in Europe, but the firm has plans to expand into North America, Australia, Singapore and Hong Kong soon.
It was not a bank when it started, but Revolut announced in December that it had been granted an EU banking licence by the European Central Bank.
It still aims to acquire a full UK banking licence.
It has already attained the status of a tech "unicorn" - a term used to describe private start-ups valued at more than $1bn (740m).
Who founded Revolut?
Image copyright Revolut Image caption Revolut's founders Vlad Yatsenko and Nikolay Storonsky Revolut was founded by Nikolay Storonsky and Vlad Yatsenko.
Mr Storonsky is Russian-born, but carries a British passport and has lived in the UK since the age of 20.
Mr Yatsenko is Ukranian British, and has lived in the UK since 2010.
Mr Yatsenko and Mr Storonsky created start-up Revolut and launched it in July 2015 at the Level39 tech accelerator in Canary Wharf.
Prior to setting up Revolut, Mr Storonsky worked for Credit Suisse and Lehman Brothers, while Mr Yatsenko spent five years building financial systems for major investment banks.
The duo said that they started Revolut because they were frustrated with the fact that traditional banks were taking so long to introduce digital banking services for younger customers, who prefer to access most services through their smartphones.
Mr Yatsenko serves as Revolut's chief technology officer, while Mr Storonsky is chief executive of the firm.
How big is Revolut?
As of March, Revolut says it reached 4.5 million customers - 1.6 million customers are located in the UK alone.
Revolut is currently valued at $1.7bn (1.3bn) from its most recent fundraising.
The three-year-old firm's growth has been impressive - its customer numbers trebled to 1.2 million in 2017, while revenues increased five fold to 12.8m.
In September, Revolut said 7,000 new accounts were being opened a day, and that it was processing $3bn in transactions a month.
Why has Revolut been in the headlines so much?
In February, Revolut launched an advertising campaign featuring an ad that highlighted the number of people who ordered a takeaway meal for one on Valentine's Day in 2018.
The ad, which asked, "You ok, hun?
", sparked a backlash on Twitter.
Revolut was accused of "shaming" single people and being both "intrusive" and "tone-deaf".
It then turned out that the ad - which said 12,750 people ordered a single takeaway meal on Valentine's Day - was using fictitious figures.
Several people complained to the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) about the advert, but since it was outside the ASA's scope, it referred the matter to the FCA.
In February, the Telegraph said that in the summer of 2018, Revolut disabled a system designed to automatically halt transactions to individuals who matched against sanctions lists.
Sanctions lists contain the names of individuals whose assets have been frozen and include those connected with chemical weapons violations as well as members of the Islamic State.
The company's lawyers drafted a letter to the FCA about the change, but it was never sent.
This draft letter was later leaked to journalists.
In the letter, which the BBC has seen, Revolut lawyers stated that the company's head of compliance technology changed systems so that transactions that potentially matched against sanctions lists were not halted.
Instead the system flagged the transaction for inspection but still allowed it to go through.
Revolut told the BBC that: "At no point did Revolut stop checking transactions for sanctions compliance last year.
Nor was there any failure in our sanctions screening procedures."
Why did Revolut's chief financial officer resign?
On 28 February, it was reported that Revolut's chief financial officer Peter O'Higgins was stepping down after spending three years with the company.
Mr Storonsky wrote in a blog post on 1 March that Mr O'Higgins had decided to step down because he felt that the business would "require someone with global retail banking experience" as Revolut applied to become a licensed bank in multiple jurisdictions.
Media reports at the time suggested that the timing of Mr O'Higgins' resignation was to do with the allegations made against it, but the company stoutly denies it.
"Any suggestion that Peter's resignation is in any way, shape or form connected to this roll-out is utterly false and damaging," wrote Mr Storonsky in his blog.
"Peter has since expressed to me that he has been hurt by this suggestion and sad that his departure has been tainted in this way."
What has the BBC discovered?
A BBC investigation has discovered that a Revolut employee made a complaint to the FCA in 2016, asking it to investigate the compliance of Revolut and the conduct of its chief executive.
The whistleblower told the BBC that Revolut's systems for flagging suspect payments were "utterly inadequate".
Revolut denied the allegation and told the BBC this was "the first time Revolut has been made aware of any such complaint, which appears to have been made by a former employee who left the company several years ago."
The BBC understands that in the past three years, Revolut has seen the departure of two chief risk officers, two money laundering reporting officers, a chief compliance officer and a chief finance officer, amongst other roles.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Gangster Al Capone was eventually convicted of tax evasion in 1931 Money laundering accounts for up to 5% of global GDP - or $2tn (1.5tn) - every year, says the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.
So banks and law enforcement agencies are turning to artificial intelligence (AI) to help combat the growing problem.
But will it work?
Money laundering, so-called after gangster Al Capone's practice of hiding criminal proceeds in cash-only laundromats in the 1920s, is a huge and growing problem.
"Dirty" money is "cleaned" by passing it through layers of seemingly legitimate banks and businesses and using it to buy properties, businesses, expensive cars, works of art - anything that can be sold on for new cash.
And one of the ways criminals do this is called "smurfing".
Specialist software is used to arrange lots of tiny bank deposits that slip below the radar, explains Mark Gazit, chief executive of ThetaRay, a financial crime AI provider headquartered in Israel.
"A $0.25 transaction will never be spotted by a human, but transactions of that kind can launder $30m if they are done hundreds of millions of times," he says.
And stolen money is often laundered to fund further criminal activity.
One recent ATM (cash machine) scam cost banks 1bn (854m) in total across 40 countries, for example.
Image copyright ThetaRay Image caption ThetaRay boss Mark Gazit says AI can spot patterns of criminal behaviour "The gang hacked into thousands of ATMs and programmed them to release up to five notes at a certain time - say 3am - at which point a local criminal or 'money mule' would pick it up," says Mr Gazit.
"The money was then converted into Bitcoin and used to fund human trafficking."
"Money mules" are often recruited to launder this gang cash through their legitimate bank accounts in return for a fee.
"Estimates suggest that not even 1% of criminal funds flowing through the international financial system is confiscated," says Colin Bell, group head of financial crime risk at HSBC.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The dangerous world of teen "money mules" And the problem seems to be getting worse, despite tightening regulations.
In the UK alone, financial crime Suspicious Activity Reports increased by 10% in 2018, according to the National Crime Agency.
The US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) told the BBC it was working on "applied technical enhancements" to its armoury of crime-fighting tools to help it keep up with advances in financial tech, but remains understandably tight-lipped on the details.
However, other organisations are openly talking about their use of AI to fight the money launderers.
More Technology of Business "AI that applies 'machine learning' can sift through vast quantities of transactions quickly and effectively," explains HSBC's Mr Bell.
"This could be a vital tool for pinpointing suspicious activity."
For this reason, AI is good at spotting smurfing attempts and accounts that are set up remotely by bots rather than humans, for example.
And it can also spot suspicious behaviour by corrupt insiders - a key element in many money laundering operations.
"Using AI removes much of the risk of people deliberately overlooking suspicious activity," says Adam Williamson, head of professional standards at the UK's Association of Accounting Technicians (AAT) - a professional body tasked with helping accountants avoid money laundering.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Several high-profile banks have been caught up in money laundering scandals recently Many of the world's biggest banks have been embroiled in money laundering scandals in recent years.
Earlier this year, Swiss banking giant UBS was hit with a 3.7bn (3.2bn) fine after being found guilty of helping wealthy clients in France hide billions of euros from tax authorities and launder the proceeds.
It is appealing against the decision.
Last year, Dutch bank ING paid out 775 million for failing to stop criminals laundering money through its accounts.
And Danske Bank's boss was forced to quit over a 200bn money laundering scandal involving its Estonian branch.
In Latvia, too, the country's third largest bank ABLV Bank AS, was wound up after US authorities accused it of large-scale money laundering that had enabled its clients to violate nuclear weapons sanctions against North Korea.
AI can crunch mountains of data in real time - emails, phone calls, expense reports - and spot patterns of behaviour humans might not notice across a global banking group.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Crypto-currencies such as Bitcoin have given gangs another way to launder their cash Once the system has learned legitimate behaviour patterns it can then more easily spot dodgy activity and learn from that.
Regulators around the world are encouraging the new technology, perhaps in acknowledgement that they are losing the battle.
US Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) director Kenneth A. Blanco says: "Financial institutions have been improving their ability to identify customers and monitor transactions by experimenting with artificial intelligence and machine learning.
"FinCEN encourages these and other financial services-related innovations."
AI tech firms, such as ThetaRay, LexisNexis Risk Solutions and Refinitiv, are offering businesses tools to tackle money laundering, but there are concerns that this presents its own problems.
"If organisations are buying AI off the shelf, how can they convince regulators they are in control of it?"
asks the AAT's Adam Williamson.
And as good as AI might be at spotting anomalies when sifting through huge swathes of data, it is only as effective as the data it is fed.
So there is a growing recognition of the need for banks, financial institutions, governments, and law enforcement agencies to share more information.
"Europol is designed to operate in partnership with law enforcement agencies, governmental departments and other stakeholders," says the agency's deputy executive director Wil van Gemert.
"We embrace the idea of collective intelligence."
Mark Hayward, a member of the UK's new Economic Crime Strategic Board, set up in January, says: "Data sharing is one of our main priorities".
And legislation has to keep up with the latest trends in financial services that criminals can exploit.
The terrorists behind the 2016 Nice truck attack, for example, paid for the vehicles by pre-paid card to take advantage of the anonymity these cards afford the user.
This is why the European Union's fifth Anti-Money Laundering Directive introduced last year includes digital currencies and prepaid cards for the first time.
Given that the criminals appear to be winning, any tools that can help tackle the problem must surely be welcome.
Follow Technology of Business editor Matthew Wall on Twitter and Facebook
Video The album Mezzanine by Massive Attack has been stored using genetic information for the first time, using technology developed at ETH Zurich.
Millions of copies of the album were put into spray paint using synthetic DNA.
The music is then stored in any painting made using the spray can.
So could DNA be the new way we store all our data?
BBC Click finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video Why are so many games concerned with world ending events brought about by pandemic, nuclear war or zombie outbreak?
Days Gone, a third-person action survival game, is the latest title to use the collapse of society as its setting.
BBC Clicks Marc Cieslak has played the game and takes a trip to worlds end to find out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video BBC Clicks Paul Carter looks at some of the best tech news stories of the week including: The BBC and ITV announce plans to launch subscription based streaming service BritBox in the UK later this year FedEx trials an autonomous delivery robot that they say can navigate unpaved surfaces, kerbs and steps A breathing, music-playing, robotic pillow has been developed that aims to calm you and help you sleep See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video A mixed reality fashion show including computer generated skulls, tigers and lightning has taken place at London Fashion Week.
The event, held at Central Saint Martins as part of their MA show, featured the work of designer Gerrit Jacob.
Magic Leap headsets connected to the Three mobile networks 5G installation allowed the audience to view animations that appeared above the models heads.
BBC Click finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video BBC Click's Paul Carter looks at some of the week's best technology stories including: Wikileaks co-founder Julian Assange was arrested by police in London after Ecuador withdrew his asylum.
The first home delivery drone service has been launched in Australia, after years of test flights.
Supermarket giant Walmart is to deploy autonomous machines across thousands of its stores in the US.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
What really happens to 'recycling' plastic?
Many Japanese people who recycle their household plastic would be shocked to know where it ends up.
Video Thousands of people are flocking to a new extension of Singapore's Changi Airport, to see the world's tallest indoor waterfall.
The Rain Vortex is seven storeys tall, and pumps 500,000 litres of rainwater through the roof of the Jewel building - that's a fifth of the volume of an Olympic-sized swimming pool.
Video by Tessa Wong.
Video Virtual reality has been described in recent years as the future of gaming.
Headsets like the Playstation VR, Oculus Rift and HTC VIVE have moved the technology on, but have failed to break into the mainstream.
Now Nintendo is bringing out a special range of its cardboard Labo kits.
Newsbeat's gaming reporter Steffan Powell has been to find out how it's different to the other VR headsets already on the market.
Video producer: Woody Morris Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube.
Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here
Video A prototype system that can automatically sort recyclable rubbish has been developed by MIT CSAIL.
Using pressure sensors to detect an items size and composition, the RoCycle system can place items in the appropriate recycling bins.
It is hoped the robot could eventually reduce the back-end cost of recycling.
BBC Click finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
How will we get around in 2050?
The push for cleaner air will mean more electric vehicles that are driverless and shared, according to experts.
